# Accounting for Decision-Making Certificate

College: Edwards School of Business
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/edwards/certificate-accounting-decision-making/index.php

Edwards
Accounting for Decision-Making
Accounting for Decision-Making
Certificate (Cert.)
Admissions
Academic policies
The Undergraduate Certificate in Accounting for Decision Making (CADM) is a three-course program that introduces students to the fundamentals of accounting and financial literacy. This program is designed for students who wish to advance their business/accounting acumen. The program will benefit students pursuing a degree in other colleges other than the Edwards School of Business, students who will use accounting information in the workplace but are not primarily responsible for its preparation, and Edwards School of Business students that do not major in accounting. Students can pursue this program as a stand-alone option or in conjunction with another degree. Students completing the program alongside another degree should consult with an advisor in their home college to understand how the courses fit within their program requirements. Upon first admission to the CADM students must complete requirements within a ten (10) year time period. Under exceptional circumstances, the School may grant an extension. Students returning to the CADM after an absence of five (5) or more years may be placed under the curriculum requirements in effect on the date of readmission.
Certificate Requirements (9 credit units)
Required Courses (9 credit units)
COMM 225.3*
COMM 325.3**
COMM 326.3**
NOTE
: This program is not recommended as a pathway to the Bachelor of Commerce (B.Comm.) program. Students interested in obtaining a certificate prior to enrolling in the B.Comm. program may wish to consider the
Certificate in Business
or the
Certificate in Entrepreneurship
.
*COMM 225.3 is not transferrable to the B.Comm. program. Students who have completed COMM 201.3 and COMM 210.3 may use it in lieu of COMM 225.3.
** COMM 325.3 and COMM 326.3 may be used for credit in the B.Comm. program for students pursuing any major except for Accounting. These courses cannot be used for credit toward a B.Comm. in Accounting.