# Anthropology

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/anthropology/index.php

Arts and Science
Anthropology
Anthropology
Admissions
Academic policies
Anthropology seeks a broad comprehension of the human experience through time and space, and asks the most enduring question, "What does it mean to be human?" Anthropology draws connections from studies of our hominin ancestors, living primates, and early human populations, to contemporary social and cultural formations.  Our programs encompass sociocultural anthropology (the study of contemporary cultures), archaeology (the study of the human past through objects and environments that help to reconstruct past human behaviours and life ways), and biological anthropology (the study of humans as biological organisms).
The application of science and social science methodologies are important parts of anthropological research.  For this reason, the Department offers both B.A. and B.Sc. programs.  Students are encouraged to meet with a Department advisor to plan their programs.
Students who prefer a social science orientation should choose one of the B.A.in Anthropology degree programs.
Students who prefer a science orientation should choose one of the B.Sc. in Anthropology degree programs.
Students will not be permitted to complete both a B.A. and a B.Sc. in Anthropology.
Major Average
The major average in the B.A. in Anthropology programs includes the grades earned in:
All ANTH and all courses listed in the Major Requirement B4.
The major average in the B.Sc. in Anthropology programs includes the grades earned in:
All courses listed in the Major Requirement C4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a B.A. degree in Anthropology, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
To receive a B.Sc. degree in Anthropology, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement C4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Palaeobiology
The Departments of Anthropology, Biology and Geological Sciences have developed an interdisciplinary program in
Palaeobiology
. For further information refer to the Palaeobiology section of the Course & Program Catalogue and contact the chairperson of the administrative committee. These courses are offered occasionally by visiting faculty and in other special situations. Students interested in these courses should contact the Department for more information
St. Thomas More College
Some courses in Anthropology are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Anthropology
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) -  Anthropology
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Anthropology
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours (B.A. Honours) - Anthropology - Major 1
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours (B.A. Honours) - Anthropology - Major 2
Bachelor of Science Honours (B.Sc. Honours) - Anthropology
Bachelor of Science Four-year (B.Sc. Four-year) - Anthropology
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Anthropology - Major 1
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Anthropology - Major 2 (Science Option)
Minor - Anthropology