# Archaeology

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/archaeology/index.php

Graduate Programs
Archaeology
Master of Arts (M.A.) - Thesis-based
Archaeology
Master of Arts (M.A.) - Thesis-based
Admissions
Academic policies
The Department of Anthropology offers a graduate program leading to the degree of Master of Arts in Archaeology. Admittance to the program is by application only.  Students interested in applying should consult in advance with the Graduate Chair or potential supervisor (faculty member who would supervise the student’s MA research). The graduate program has been designed to provide flexibility in the choice of courses and research topics within the capacity of the Department's resources. An applicant must hold a four-year honours degree or equivalent degree in archaeology, anthropology or an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study. Students with Honours degrees in other disciplines may apply, but they may be required to do qualifying course work. Archaeology is considered the major field of study, but applicants are strongly encouraged to identify the topic area in which they wish to do their thesis research so that a thesis supervisor can be assigned if the applicant is accepted. The course requirements consist of 12 credit units at the graduate level, which must include ARCH 805.3. Other courses are chosen in consultation with the student's supervisory committee. Some of these courses may be taken from cognate fields outside the department.
For more information on this field of study, see the
Department of Anthropology
website.
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a course in archaeological method and theory
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a four-year or honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in the ARCH 994 course.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
A minimum of 12 credit units including the following:
ARCH 805.3
ARCH 990.0
ARCH 994.0
oral defence of thesis