# Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/biochemistry-microbiology-and-immunology/index.php

Arts and Science
Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology
Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology
Admissions
Academic policies
The Department of Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology offers a program which provides education in the areas the molecular and cellular approaches to the study of the life sciences including microbial physiology and pathogenesis, protein structure and function, molecular biology, microbial genetics, virology, tumour biology and cancer, immunology and immunopathogenesis. This program includes necessary courses for students prepared to enter graduate studies in biomedical sciences and into health-related professional schools such as Medicine, Dentistry, Veterinary Medicine and Pharmacy. Graduates are also prepared for careers in broad aspects of biotechnology and they can find employment in academic/research institutions and related industries.
Double Honours programs in Biochemistry and Biology, and Biochemistry and Physics are also available. Students considering a Double Honours program must consult an academic advisor within each department.
The five B.Sc.(BMSC) degree programs listed below share a set of courses (the Biomedical Science Common Core) which are to be taken in years 1 & 2. These courses have been incorporated into the M1, M3 and M4 requirements.
Biochemistry, Microbiology & Immunology
Biomedical Foundations
Biomedical Neuroscience
Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences
Interdisciplinary Biomedical Sciences
Students who have graduated with a Bachelor of Science Honours, Double Honours or Four-year degree with a Major in Biochemistry or a Major in Microbiology and Immunology may not receive a Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Science) degree with a Major in Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology as a Second Degree.
Major Average
The major average in Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology programs includes the grades earned in:
All courses listed in the Core Requirement M4.
All courses listed in the Major Requirement M5
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology, students must complete at least two thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Core Requirement M4 and Major Requirement M5.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Science) Honours [B.Sc. (BMSC) Honours] - Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology
Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Science) Four-year [B.Sc. (BMSC) Four-year] - Biochemistry, Microbiology and Immunology