# Biology

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/biology/index.php

Arts and Science
Biology
Biology
Admissions
Academic policies
Biology is the science of the 21st century and at the forefront of stunning advances in our understanding of life processes, ranging from genome discoveries to the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems. The Biology program offers courses in a broad range of foundational and contemporary biological topics, and programs that can be tailored to meet individual interests. We emphasize hands-on, laboratory-based learning experiences in all of our undergraduate courses. Degree programs promote critical skills development and provide exciting opportunities for sophisticated learning of fundamental principles and contemporary approaches to the science of life. Students graduating with a degree in Biology are well suited for a wide range of careers - in education, applied research or biomedical sciences to name just a few. Biology is an excellent choice for students interested in gaining entrance to a health science program, including medicine, dentistry, nursing, and veterinary medicine. Biology faculty conduct first-rate research over the entire biological spectrum and have particular strengths in integrating across all levels of biological organization. We are enthusiastic about our undergraduate teaching and actively encourage students to engage with us in our research. The Honours program is specifically designed to provide students with preparation for more advanced graduate level training in Biology or a related discipline.
Students intending to major in Biology are strongly advised to take CHEM 112 and CHEM 115 before or concurrently with BIOL 120 and BIOL 121. It is recommended that students specializing in Biology attend seminars regularly.
Related programs:
Students interested in Biology may also want to consider the related programs in
Environmental Biology
, and the
Agricultural Biology
program offered by the College of Agriculture and Bioresources.
The Departments of Archaeology, Biology and Geological Sciences have developed an interdisciplinary program in
Palaeobiology
. Interested students should refer to the Palaeobiology program and contact the chairperson of the administrative committee.
Major Average
The major average in Biology programs includes the grades earned in:
All BIOL and all courses listed in the Major Requirement C4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Biology, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement C4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science Honours (B.Sc. Honours) - Biology
Bachelor of Science Four-year (B.Sc. Four-year) - Biology
Bachelor of Science Three-year (B.Sc. Three-year) - Biology
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Biology - Major 1
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Biology and Biochemistry - Majors 1 and 2
Biology - Minor