# Biomedical Neuroscience

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/biomedical-neuroscience/index.php

Arts and Science
Biomedical Neuroscience
Biomedical Neuroscience
Admissions
Academic policies
The Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Pharmacology programs provide education in the discipline of neuroscience. This program includes education in many of the major topics in neuroscience including molecular and cellular neuroscience, systems and sensory neuroscience, behavioural and cognitive neuroscience, neurophysiology and neuroanatomy. Programs in Anatomy, Physiology and Pharmacology include essential prerequisite courses for life science professional schools (e.g. Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy and Nutrition, Veterinary Medicine) and while this program focuses on neuroscience it prepares students for graduate studies in many areas of the life sciences. Graduates at all levels find employment in academia, industry and other life science research enterprises.
The five B.Sc. degree programs listed below share a set of courses (the Biomedical Science Common
Core) which are to be taken in years 1 & 2. These courses have been incorporated into the M1, M3, and
M4 requirements.
Biochemistry, Microbiology & Immunology
Biomedical Foundations
Biomedical Neuroscience
Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences
Interdisciplinary Biomedical Sciences
Major Average
The major average in Biomedical Neuroscience programs includes the grades earned in:
All courses listed in the Core Requirement M4
All courses listed in the Major Requirement M5.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Biomedical Neuroscience, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Core Requirement M4 and the Major Requirement M5.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Science) Honours [B.Sc. (BMSC) Honours] - Biomedical Neuroscience
Bachelor of Science (BMSC) Four-year [B.Sc. (BMSC) Four-year]
- Biomedical Neuroscience