# Business Economics

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/business-economics/index.php

Arts and Science
Business Economics
Business Economics
Admissions
Academic policies
Economics is the science describing the production and distribution of wealth. The undergraduate Economics program provides students with the theoretical and empirical tools to comprehend, assess and analyze the many pressing issues and problems of individuals, businesses and society in an economic context.
The Business Economics Program combines courses in the Department of Economics and the Edwards School of Business to produce a degree which provides the student with a rigorous background in both economics and commerce, with special emphasis in economics, so as to prepare students for the world of business, finance, and public service. Students trained in our program will be able to apply their specialized knowledge to practical economic problems in their chosen area of employment. Moreover, they will be better equipped to enter the private and public sectors as business economists. In addition, in this program the student becomes familiarized with both economics and commerce from a liberal arts perspective thereby providing the students with a unique, valuable and flexible approach to these areas of study.
The Department of Economics also offers programs in Economics
Some courses in Economics are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College.  These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
ECON 111 and a junior course in calculus are prerequisites for most 300- and 400-level Economics courses.
For statistics course regulations, please visit the
Academic Information and Policies section.
Students planning to pursue graduate studies should consult the department for advising.
Major Average
The major average in Business Economics programs includes the grades earned in:
All ECON and all courses listed in the Major Requirement B4.
All COMM courses numbered 104 or higher.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Business Economics, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
St. Thomas More College
Some courses in Economics are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Business Economics
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Business Economics
Statistics - Minor