# Business Administration

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/business-administration/index.php

Graduate Programs
Business Administration
Master of Business Administration
Business Administration
Master of Business Administration
Admissions
Academic policies
Leading to a professional general management graduate degree, the Edwards MBA’s intensive and highly integrated format will develop management ability in an applied and useful way. A student will learn the people skills of management: how to manage oneself and others; how to communicate effectively; how to lead. The Edwards MBA is a highly integrated program designed to meet the needs of individuals whose undergraduate education has been in either business or academic disciplines other than business, and whose future careers are likely to involve managerial activities.
The Edwards MBA can be completed in only 12 months if taken full time, or part time in up to 36 months. A decidedly unique aspect of this innovative MBA program is the focused learning and integration of business concepts. Each course is offered consecutively in a modular format. Courses are scheduled in three week durations creating an intensive learning environment that immerses students in the subject area while allowing flexibility in scheduling your MBA education. Furthermore, our students learn how business concepts are integrated into business decisions through a combination of applied courses, exercises, case studies and projects incorporating each functional business area.
The Edwards MBA Program offers an optional Internship Program to those Edwards MBA students hoping to gain relevant work experience in their field of interest. The program consists of two four-month work terms starting in January of the first year of study. As an internship student who secures a work placement (placements are not guaranteed), you will register in two permission-only MBA courses (MBA 879.0
and
MBA 882.0), and will be a paid, full-time employee gaining meaningful work experience related to your area of study.
Learn More!
We offer the opportunity for students to complete the M.B.A. concurrently with degrees in Medicine (M.D), Dentistry (DMD) and Veterinary Medicine (Vet Med). This opportunity is available to students accepted into those respective colleges. For further information on the M.B.A. admission and program requirements, please see below. For further information on the College of Medicine, Dentistry and Vet Med admission and program requirements please visit the College of Medicine, College of Dentistry, and Western College of Veterinary Medicine websites and the M.D., DMD, and Vet Med sections of this Catalogue.
Prospective students seeking more information about the Master of Business Administration program at the Edwards School of Business are invited to visit the Edwards MBA website at
www.edwardsmba.ca
or e-mail
mba@edwards.usask.ca
.
Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) - Course-based
Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) - Edwards MBA Internship Program (EMIP) Concentration