# Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/cellular-physiology-and-pharmacology/index.php

Arts and Science
Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences
Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences
Admissions
Academic policies
The Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Pharmacology programs provide education in disciplines of the anatomical sciences (cell biology, developmental biology, and gross anatomy), physiology and pharmacology. These life science disciplines provide a comprehensive understanding of the functions and mechanisms of actions of the cells and major systems of the human body, and of the effects and mode of action of chemicals which modify the major systems of the body. Programs in Biochemistry include essential prerequisite courses for life science professional schools (e.g. Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy and Nutrition, Veterinary Medicine) and graduate studies in many areas of the life sciences. Graduates at all levels find employment in academia, industry and other life science research enterprises.
The five B.Sc. (BMSC) degree programs listed below share a set of courses (the Biomedical Science Common Core) which are to be taken in years 1 & 2. These courses have been incorporated into the M1, M3 and M4 requirements.
Biochemistry, Microbiology & Immunology
Biomedical Foundations
Biomedical Neuroscience
Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences
Interdisciplinary Biomedical Sciences
Students who have graduated with a Bachelor of Science Honours, Double Honours or Four-year degree with a Major in Anatomy and Cell Biology or a Major in Physiology and Pharmacology may not receive a Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Science) degree with a Major in Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences as a Second Degree.
Major Average
The major average in Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences programs includes the grades earned in:
All courses listed in the Core Requirement M4.
All courses listed in the Major Requirement M5.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Core Requirement M4 and the Major Requirement M5.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Science) Honours [B.Sc. (BMSC) Honours] - Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences
Bachelor of Science (Biomedical Science) Four-year [B.Sc. (BMSC) Four-Year] - Cellular, Physiological and Pharmacological Sciences