# Chemistry

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/chemistry/index.php

Arts and Science
Chemistry
Chemistry
Admissions
Academic policies
Chemistry is the science that deals with the structure and transformations of material substances. It occupies a central place among the sciences because it takes the fundamental ideas of mathematics and physics, adapts them to chemical systems, and applies them in areas ranging from biotechnology to advanced materials to environmental science. Product development in areas such as pharmaceuticals and electronic materials depend on developments in chemistry, and chemistry is key in environmental and medical research.
Through appropriate course selection, students can specialize in analytical, bioorganic, computational, inorganic, organic, organometallic, physical, and theoretical chemistry.
The four-year programs leading to a B.Sc. Honours or B.Sc. Four-year degree meet requirements for professional qualification as a chemist and membership in the Canadian Society for Chemistry.
Students are expected to consult with a faculty advisor in the Department of Chemistry (normally during the annual academic advising period in March - April).
Major Average
The major average in Chemistry programs includes the grades earned in:
All CHEM and all courses listed in the Major Requirement C4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Chemistry, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement C4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science Honours (B.Sc. Honours) - Chemistry
Bachelor of Science Four-year (B.Sc. Four-year) - Chemistry
Bachelor of Science Three-year (B.Sc. Three-year) - Chemistry
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Chemistry - Major 1
Double Honours - Chemistry - Major 2
Chemistry - Minor
Suggested Sequence of Courses
Year 1
CHEM 112.3
CHEM 115.3
CHEM 250.3
MATH 110.3
MATH 116.3
PHYS 115.3
PHYS 117.3 or PHYS 125.3 (PHYS 125 recommended) (formerly PHYS 111 and PHYS 121)
Other Program Type C degree requirements
Year 2
BMSC 200.3 (formerly BIOC 200)
CHEM 221.3
CHEM 231.3
CHEM 242.3
CHEM 255.3
Other Program Type C degree requirements. Students entering 2nd year should consult with a departmental advisor.
Year 3 and 4
Students entering 3rd or 4th year should consult with a departmental advisor. Students should complete the remainder of the major and electives requirements and any outstanding Program Type C requirements. Since many 4th-year chemistry courses are offered only in alternate years, students should include the 3rd year prerequisite courses in Term 1 for the 4th year courses they wish to take in Term 2.