# Chemical Engineering

College: Engineering
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/engineering/chemical-engineering/index.php

Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Chemical Engineering
Admissions
Academic policies
Chemical Engineering deals chiefly with industrial processing to produce value-added products from raw materials. The processing of organic (crude oils, natural gas, lumber), inorganic (ores, air, salts) and biological (starches, cellulose, fats) materials into a wide range of useful commodity products, such as fuels, plastics, pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, and foods is carried out within a framework of environmental sustainability and concern for worker/public safety. Emphasis is on the design, construction and economic operation of equipment in these areas, and on related research and development. Some emphasis on environmental studies, mineral processing, petrochemicals and bio-chemicals is permitted through the choice of electives.
In addition to completing the regular program of study prescribed for a Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.E.) program, undergraduate students registered in the Chemical Engineering major may also choose to complete one of the following three academic options: Bioprocessing Option, Mineral Processing Option, or Petroleum Option. The requirements for each of these options are listed below.
All undergraduate students admitted to the College of Engineering are required to complete a common first-year of undeclared studies (known as the first-year common core). Once the first-year common core program has been completed, undergraduate students declare their preferences and compete for admission into an upper-year program. Students who are successful in securing admission into an upper-year program are required to follow the program of study that is prescribed at the time of their admission into the upper-year program.
Recognizing that course and program changes may result in a modification to the original program of study, it is recommended that undergraduate students consult an Academic Advisor within the Engineering Student Centre on a regular basis to confirm their program of study, choose courses (including electives), and monitor their academic progress.
Programs
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.E.) - Chemical Engineering
Program Options
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.E.) - Bioprocessing Option
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.E.) - Mineral Processing Option
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (B.E.) - Petroleum Option