# Chemical Risk Assessment

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/chemical-risk-assessment/index.php

Graduate Programs
Chemical Risk Assessment
Master of Chemical Risk Assessment (M.R.A.)
Chemical Risk Assessment
Master of Chemical Risk Assessment (M.R.A.)
Admissions
Academic policies
Admission Requirements
a four year degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in a science related discipline, OR a three year first cycle undergraduate degree in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field oF study from an institution that meets the criteria set forth in the Bologna Declaration will be acceptable as the equivalent of an undergraduate degree.
a minimum cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (USask grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (e.g., 60 credit units)
Language proficiency requirement: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a statement of intent
an up-to-date Curriculum Vitae
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies.
Holistic Admission
Applicants whose qualifications do not meet the minimum requirements listed above or whose academic qualifications are difficult to assess may be admitted to the program using a holistic admission approach or they may be admitted with a conditional status. Holistic applications will be reviewed to assess the skills, personal attributes, background, and experience, and how these relate to success in the MRA program. Applicants in this category may, in some situations, be required to take one or more preparatory courses to improve their qualifications. In this case, they will be required to pay additional fees.
The student’s conditional status will be reviewed after a specified amount of academic work is completed. If progress is satisfactory, the Program Director or Graduate Chair will recommend to the CGPS that the student be considered fully qualified. Students who do not achieve the admission conditions may withdraw voluntarily or, failing this, will be required to discontinue. In certain exceptional situations, the academic unit may extend the conditional period with a new set of conditions, agreed to by the student and by the CGPS. Students in the Program shall be subject to the rules, regulations, policies, and procedures set out in the
USask Catalogue, Policies and Procedures Manual
, as well as other policies, regulations and standard practices of USask and its College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies.
*Contact the
Toxicology Centre
for details about the online application process.
Degree Requirements
GPS 960.0
A minimum of 36 credit units are required to complete this program, including the following:
TOX 870.3
TOX 871.3
TOX 872.3
TOX 873.3
TOX 874.3
TOX 875.3
TOX 876.3
TOX 877.3
TOX 878.3
TOX 879.3
TOX 880.3
TOX 881.3
Students may take up to two break terms during the program. Students who choose to take a break term are required to communicate their intent to the Toxicology Centre and register in a maintenance of status course for the term(s).