# Classical, Medieval and Renaissance Studies

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/classical-medieval-and-renaissance-studies/index.php

Arts and Science
Classical, Medieval and Renaissance Studies
Classical, Medieval and Renaissance Studies
Admissions
Academic policies
Classical, Medieval and Renaissance Studies (CMRS) is an interdisciplinary program that provides a broad foundation in the humanistic, cultural, and learned traditions of the Classical (Greece and Rome), Medieval and Renaissance eras of western Europe and the Mediterranean. Built around a small framework of core courses and languages, this program allows students great flexibility and breadth of choice to explore the creative, cultural, intellectual, social, and scientific legacy of the pre-modern western world: Greece and Rome, the Mediterranean, and Europe. Faculty in CMRS work closely with students in the program, inviting everyone into a dialogue with the past, one that endeavours to bring us face to face with the values of pre-modern people and, ultimately, with our own. This dialogue is wholistic and should be a source of personal revelation and delight as well as one that must reckon with the darker legacy of European expansion. Students will have the opportunity to choose courses in Art History, Archaeology, Classics, CMRS, Drama, English, French, Geography, German, Greek, History, Latin, Music, Philosophy, Political Studies, and Religious Studies, and Spanish.
At every stage of the program faculty emphasize the development of research and writing skills and critical reasoning necessary for success in many future career paths. Many of our students have gone on to successful careers in the law, library sciences, digital humanities, museum studies and curation, civil service, foreign service, the military, journalism, creative writing, management, and the teaching professions in schools and universities.
Administration of the Program -
CMRS is administered by an Executive Committee with representatives from our students and a range of departments in the College of Arts and Science and St Thomas More College. For information on the CMRS program and courses visit the CMRS website or contact the program director.
Comitatus
, the CMRS Students’ Association, is open to all students and offers a program of academic and social events. The CMRS website announce events and celebrates the achievements and all the news relating to CMRS students, alumni, faculty, and friends.
Major Average
The major average in Classical, Medieval, and Renaissance Studies programs includes the grades earned in:
All CMRS and all courses listed in the Major Requirement A4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Classical, Medieval & Renaissance Studies, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement A4, excluding CMRS 110.3 and CMRS 111.3.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Classical, Medieval & Renaissance Studies
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Classical, Medieval and Renaissance Studies
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Classical, Medieval & Renaissance Studies - Major 1
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Classical, Medieval & Renaissance Studies - Major 2
Classical, Medieval & Renaissance Studies - Minor