# Dentistry - B.Sc.

College: Dentistry
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/dentistry/bsc-dent/index.php

Dentistry
Bachelor of Science in Dentistry [B.Sc. (Dent.)]
Bachelor of Science in Dentistry [B.Sc. (Dent.)]
Academic policies
Please note that no new applications will be accepted at this time.
The Bachelor of Science Dentistry [B.Sc. (Dent.)] program in the College of Dentistry is a full-time program completed over two summer terms following Years 1 and 2 of the Doctor of Dental Medicine (D.M.D.) program. The program consists of a combination of academic course work and an intensive research experience of 600. The program has been designed to provide students the opportunity to develop knowledge and skills in research to foster interest in research career paths and provide a competitive advantage to students applying to specialty graduate programs. Students will work with a designated faculty supervisor to design and conduct a research project to be completed over two consecutive 10-week summer terms. Students are required to complete a progress report at the end of the first term and submit a manuscript to a peer-reviewed journal for publication following the second term. The B.Sc. (Dent.) degree is conferred at the same time as the D.M.D. degree to students successfully meeting the requirements for both degrees.
B.Sc. (Dent.) Requirements (46 credit units)
Spring and Summer Terms, between Years 1 and 2 of the D.M.D. Program (23 credit units):
DENR 378.3
DENR 379.20
Successful completion of a progress report on research
Spring and Summer Terms, between Years 2 and 3 of the D.M.D. Program (23 credit units):
DENR 478.3
DENR 479.20
Additional Requirements:
Successful oral defense of research project to College Research Committee
Presentation of successfully defended project at College/University research competition
Attendance at national clinical research competition by student selected with best research project
Submission of a manuscript to a peer-reviewed journal
Successful completion of all D.M.D. program requirements