# Drama

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/drama/index.php

Arts and Science
Drama
Drama
Admissions
Academic policies
For students majoring in Drama who take several 100-level courses in the subject of their major, the first 6 100-level credit units taken will be counted as junior and the remaining 100-level courses in that subject will be counted as senior.
B.A. Programs
Bachelor of Arts (Double Honours): A general degree in theatre with a focus on acquiring design and acting skills, combined with a focus in a second subject area. A minimum of 42 credit units of DRAM courses will be taken. Certain courses require a successful audition.
Bachelor of Arts (4-year): A general degree in theatre with a principal focus on acquiring design and acting skills. A minimum of 39 credit units of DRAM courses will be taken. Certain courses require a successful audition.
Bachelor of Arts (3-year): A general degree in theatre with a principal focus on acquiring design and acting skills. A minimum of 33 credit units of DRAM courses will be taken.
B.F.A. Programs
Area 1: Acting -
concerned with the practice of acting in various media.
Area 2: Design -
concerned with the practice of scenic, lighting, and costume design for the stage.
Related programs:
Students interested in Drama may also want to consider the related Foundations of Drama or
wîcêhtowin Theatre Certificate
programs offered by the College of Arts and Science. The wîcêhtowin Theatre program is a comprehensive and experiential-based learning approach to develop emerging First Nations and Métis theatre professionals and students who are interested in an Indigenous perspective. The
Foundations of Drama
program is intended to develop the student’s ability in a combination of acting and technical theatre.
Major Average
The major average in Drama B.A. programs includes the grades earned in:
All DRAM and all courses listed in the Major Requirement D4.
The major average in Drama B.F.A. programs includes the grades earned in:
All DRAM courses
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a B.A. degree in Drama, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement D4.
To receive a B.F.A. degree in Drama, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
All credit units required in DRAM
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Fine Arts Honours (B.F.A. Honours) - Acting
Bachelor of Fine Arts Honours (B.F.A. Honours) - Design
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Drama
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Drama
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Drama - Major 1
Double Honours - Drama - Major 2