# Economics

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/economics/index.php

Arts and Science
Economics
Economics
Admissions
Academic policies
Economics is the science describing the production and distribution of wealth. The undergraduate Economics program provides students with the theoretical and empirical tools to comprehend, assess and analyze the many pressing issues and problems of society in an economic context. Areas of study include basic and advanced economic theory, public policy, labour and regional development, as well as the quantitative and historical aspects of economics.
An undergraduate degree in Economics provides an excellent academic background for students interested in advanced studies in accounting, business, commerce, communications, finance, international studies, journalism, law or politics. A Master’s or Ph.D. degree can be a significant advantage in terms of career opportunities. The University of Saskatchewan’s highly regarded undergraduate Economics program has provided our students with solid foundations to successfully pursue advanced degrees in economics at the U of S as well as in leading universities in Canada, the U.S., the U.K. and France.
The Department of Economics also offers programs in
Business Economics.
Some courses in Economics are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
The requirement of ECON 305 for the honours program can be met by MATH 266. The requirement of ECON 306 can be met by a course in the calculus of multiple variables e.g., MATH 225 or MATH 276. Other mathematics classes may satisfy the equivalency criteria; students should consult with the Head of the Department.
The ECON 305 and 306 equivalency courses in mathematics may not be used to satisfy:
a) the 300- or 400-level requirement for the B.A. Three-year degree,
b) the requirements for a minor in Economics.
The 6 credit units in mathematics that satisfy the equivalency criteria for ECON 305 and 306 shall be counted as if they were economics courses in order to satisfy the minimum number of economics courses required for any degree in economics and the grades in these mathematics courses will be included in the economics grade average.
For statistics course regulations, please visit the
Academic Information and Pol
icies
in the Arts and Science section of the Calendar.
Students planning to pursue graduate studies should consult the department for advising.
Major Average
The major average in Economics programs includes the grades earned in:
All ECON and all courses listed in the Major Requirement B4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Economics, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Dual Degree
A dual degree Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. 4-year) in Economics program option is offered in partnership with the Beijing Institute of Technology. A dual degree program allows students to study at two universities, satisfying both institutions' admission and degree requirements. Students receive a degree from both universities. Interested students should contact the
Department of Economics
for further information.
Economics - Post-Degree Specialization Certificate
The program requires completion of at least 30 credit units from the College of Arts & Science including completion of the department's discipline requirements, promotion and graduation standards, for a Four-year major in Economics. The program requires completion of ECON 111, 114, 211 or 273, 214 or 274, 304, 12 credit units in ECON at the 300- or 400-level, 6 additional credit units in ECON, and STAT 245. A junior course in calculus is prerequisite for most 300-level ECON courses.
St. Thomas More College
Some courses in Economics are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Economics
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Economics
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Economics
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Economics - Major 1
Double Honours - Economics - Major 2
Economics - Post-Degree Specialization Certificate
Economics - Minor
Statistics - Minor