# Engineering Entrepreneurship Certificate - New Product Market

College: Engineering
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/engineering/cert-eng-entrepreneurship-new-product-market/index.php

Engineering
Engineering Entrepreneurship - New Product Market
Certificate in Engineering Entrepreneurship - New Product Market
Engineering Entrepreneurship - New Product Market
Certificate in Engineering Entrepreneurship - New Product Market
Admissions
Academic policies
The Certificate in Engineering Entrepreneurship – New Product Market (CEENPM) program is a certificate that prepares students for new technological product development, an essential skill for entrepreneur and product managers. The program cultivates an interdisciplinary and a customer focused mindset in product development practice. In particular, the students will develop skills in the practice of marketing research and product definition. The program consists of five courses (13 credits). All courses within the program have a product-market focus. The program is jointly delivered by the Ron and Jane Graham School of Professional Development, College of Engineering and Edwards School of Business.
Registration in the Certificate is available to undergraduate students who are enrolled in engineering degree program at the University of Saskatchewan; however, it may also be completed as a stand-alone program. Students are required to complete the required courses listed below.
For more information please refer to the Engineering Entrepreneurship
program website
.
Course information
All required courses and most of the elective courses in the Certificate in Engineering Entrepreneurship program are offered on an annual basis during the fall and winter terms. Select courses may be offered during the spring and summer terms.
For further information on current academic offerings, please consult the Dynamic Schedule or contact the School of Professional Development, College of Engineering via telephone (306-966-7830).
Certificate Requirements (13 credit units)
Required Courses (10 credit units)
GE 490.1
COMM 204.3
GE 348.3
GE 431.3
Elective courses (3 credit units)
COMM 211.3
COMM 205.3
COMM 304.3
GE 450.3
COMM 358.3
RCM 400.3
RCM 404.3
RCM 401.3
Optional Course and Extracurricular Activities
Students may find the following courses useful to complete as additional learning experiences:
GE 495.6 Technological Innovation Capstone Design
GE 496.3 Technological Innovation Design
GE 451.1 Intellectual Property Fundamentals
Saskatchewan Innovation Growth and Market Accelerate (SIGMA) Educational Skill Accelerator