# Environmental Biology

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/environmental-biology/index.php

Arts and Science
Environmental Biology
Environmental Biology
Admissions
Academic policies
This interdisciplinary program examines ecosystems with a focus on how living organisms interact with their environment.  A major in Environmental Biology will accommodate a wide variety of student interests and aspirations, including a career in environmental science or as preparation for more advanced study.  Students completing this program will have a comprehensive understanding of the basic science of environmental biology and ecological theory, an exposure to technical skills, and will be articulate and knowledgeable about the complex environmental issues facing our society.  Areas of emphasis are biodiversity, conservation, ecological processes at the levels of genes to communities to landscapes, environmental contamination, and other aspects of applied ecology.  Opportunities are provided for students to pursue their own particular interests through senior electives.  Courses from other disciplines are used to supplement those in Biology.  The program culminates in a senior course taught by faculty researchers in environmental biology. Students will apply their interdisciplinary knowledge to current environmental issues in Biology, while refining communication and analytical skills and developing a sense of community. The Honours program allows for a more in-depth training and places an emphasis on field studies and original research by the student.  We invite you to contact the
Department of Biology
for further information.
Students interested in Environmental Biology may also want to consider the related program in
Biology
.
Major Average
The major average in Environmental Biology programs includes the grades earned in:
All BIOL and all courses listed in the Major Requirement C4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Environmental Biology, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
BIOL 120 and BIOL 121
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement C4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science Honours (B.Sc. Honours) - Environmental Biology
Bachelor of Science Four-year (B.Sc. Four-year) - Environmental Biology