# Financial Management Certificate

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/financial-management/index.php

Graduate Programs
Financial Management
Graduate Certificate in Financial Management (GCFM)
Financial Management
Graduate Certificate in Financial Management (GCFM)
Admissions
Academic policies
Admission Requirements
This certificate may be used to ladder into the Master of Business Administration program.
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a four year degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university
Applicants with three year degrees and strong demonstrable potential for success in the program may be considered for admission. All applicants will be considered using a holistic admissions approach.
Statement of Intent: Applicants must provide a written Statement of Intent (1000-word maximum) describing why they want to undertake the program and how their expertise, work and/or volunteer experience make them an ideal candidate for the program and their chosen field of study. This statement is a key component in adjudicating each applicant’s suitability to the program. An interview may also be required to assess communication skills
Current resume detailing positions held and a description of responsibilities
Two confidential letters of recommendation (minimum one academic)
Completion of the following two GMAC Business Fundamentals* courses and their scores submitted to the school before starting the GCFM:
GMAC Business Fundamentals: Finance
GMAC Business Fundamentals: Accounting
This requirement may be waived if:
An applicant has successfully completed a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the Edwards School of Business within the last 10 years and achieved an average of 75% in their last two years of full-time study (60 credit units).
An applicant has successfully completed the Edwards School of Business Master of Professional Accounting program.
An applicant holds a PMI issued PMP, or a recognized Canadian professional designation, namely, CPA, CFA, CPHR and PEng.
An applicant is currently enrolled in the University of Saskatchewan’s Doctor of Veterinary Medicine program or Doctor of Pharmacy program.
An applicant has achieved the minimum required score on the LSAT, MCAT, or DAT, and have been admitted to the respective University of Saskatchewan colleges
An applicant holds one of the following degrees from a Canadian university:
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM)
Medical Doctor (MD)
Juris Doctor (JD)
Doctor of Pharmacy (PharmD)
Doctor of Dental Medicine (DMD)
Earned Doctoral Degree
An applicant has successfully completed an undergraduate business degree from an accredited Canadian business school (i.e. AACSB) and has a converted entrance average of a minimum of 80% in the last two years of full-time study (60 credit units) of their respective business program.
Applicants will be assessed on a holistic basis for admission purposes. We will look at a variety of factors when making admission decisions including undergraduate degree, grade point average, work experience, and reference letters. Applicants whose qualifications do not meet the minimum requirements will be encouraged to contact the Edwards graduate programs office to discuss potential opportunities for admission. Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis as their applications are completed.
Applicants whose qualifications do not meet the minimum requirements or whose academic qualifications are difficult to assess may be offered admission with conditions to a program. Applicants in this category will be required to participate in an interview with the Edwards Graduate Programs Admissions Committee and may be required to take certain preparatory courses to improve their qualifications. In this case they will be required to pay additional fees. The student’s status will be reviewed after a specified amount of academic work is completed. If progress is satisfactory, the Edwards Graduate Programs Admissions Committee may recommend to the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (CGPS) that the student be considered fully qualified. Students who do not achieve the conditions set out in the offer of admission may withdraw voluntarily or, failing this, will be required to discontinue. In certain exceptional situations, the academic unit may extend the  conditions deadline with a new set of conditions, agreed to by the student and by CGPS.
Certificate Requirements (9 credit units)
The Graduate Certificate in Financial Management (GCFM) is a three-course program designed to equip students with the skills they need to understand and interpret financial statements, including the development of a performance measurement system, recommending management control systems to enable strategic execution, making decisions using fiscal knowledge, and depending on their situation, learning and honing skills that are crucial for developing business plans, budgeting techniques, securing funding, and evaluating investments.
All three of the courses in this program are fully transferrable to the Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree at the University of Saskatchewan
MBA 860.3
MBA 865.3
MBA 870.3