# Finance

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/finance/index.php

Graduate Programs
Finance
Master of Science (M.Sc.) - Thesis-based
Finance
Master of Science (M.Sc.) - Thesis-based
Academic policies
No new applications will be accepted at this time. Please contact the Graduate Programs Office, Edwards School of Business for more information.
The Master of Science in Finance program offered by the Department of Finance and Management Science provides students with a theoretical background in contemporary finance issues and a strong foundation in empirical methods. The program can be used as a platform for students who wish to pursue a Ph.D. and it equips students with a competitive advantage in jobs that have a significant research component.
The two-year program features seminars and lectures in a small class size setting. A thesis is required in the second year. Due to the research intensive nature of the program and individual student supervision at the thesis stage, enrolment is limited. Only a handful of universities across North America offer programs that have a similar focus on financial research at the Master level.
Prospective students requiring more information about our program are invited to visit the M.Sc. in Finance website at
Edwards School of Business
or e-mail the program administrator at mscfinance@edwards.usask.ca.
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
at least 6 U of S equivalent credit units (1 year) of Statistics and 3 U of S equivalent credit units (1/2 year) of Calculus
minimum cumulative weighted average of 75% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of full-time study (e.g. 60 credit units)
minimum score of 500 on the GMAT or a GRE average (verbal, quantitative, analytical) score of 50th percentile*
undergraduate degree from a recognized college or university in Business, Commerce, or a related field, with a major or substantial number of classes in Finance
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
*Both the GMAT Exam and GMAT Focus Edition will be accepted.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in the 994 course.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
A minimum of 15 credit units of core courses, including the following:
FIN 801.3
FIN 802.3
FIN 803.3
FIN 805.3
FIN 990.0
FIN 994.0
One of ECON 804.3, ECON 808.3, JSGS 803.3, or STAT 845.3
Thesis defence
Thesis proposal presentation