# Foundations for Registered Nurse Specialty Practice Certificate

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/foundations-registered-nurse-specialty-practice/index.php

Graduate Programs
Foundations for Registered Nurse Specialty Practice
Foundations for Registered Nurse Specialty Practice
Graduate Certificate (G.Cert.)
Academic policies
Please note that no new applications will be accepted at this point.
Admission Requirements
a bachelor's degree in Nursing from a Canadian college or university.
Proof of Registered Nurse (RN) Licensure in a Canadian Jurisdiction; applicants must submit a copy of their RN licensure (in good standing) from a Canadian nursing regulatory body.
a cumulative weighted average of 65% or higher (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of post-secondary study (ie. 60 credits). Applicants are required to submit transcripts from all post-secondary education programs where they have completed course work.
Proof of English proficiency may be required for applicants to graduate programs. Proof of
English proficiency may be demonstrated through:
A minimum of three consecutive years of full-time study or completion of a graduate
degree at a recognized post-secondary institution, where the exclusive language of
instruction and examination of the program and/or institution is English; or
Provision of evidence of English language proficiency, using one of the approved tests
listed in the English Language Proficiency Policy. Acceptable test scores are as follows:
TOEFL: a combined minimum total score of 94, with a minimum of 24 out of 30
in the writing component, and a minimum of 22 out of 30 in the reading,
listening, and speaking components.
IELTS: an overall score of 7.0 with no score below 6.5 in each area
the equivalent of three credit units in each of: health/physical assessment, pharmacology, and physiology at the undergraduate level.
Letter of recommendation: Letters of recommendation: (1) from your supervisor, (1) clinical recommendation and (1) academic reference must be submitted. If less than three letters of recommendation are submitted, your application will not be accepted.
Note: Applicants are assessed on a holistic basis for competitive admission purposes. We look at a
variety of factors when making admission decisions including undergraduate degree, grade point
average, and reference letters. Applicants who do not meet the minimum requirements are encouraged
to contact the College of Nursing Graduate Programs office to discuss potential opportunities for
admission.
Applicants whose qualifications do not meet the minimum requirements or whose academic qualifications are difficult to assess may be admitted on a probationary status to a program. Applicants in this category may be required to take certain preparatory courses to improve their qualifications. The student’s status will be reviewed after a specified amount of academic work is completed. If progress is satisfactory, the College of Nursing - Graduate Admissions Committee may recommend the student is fully qualified. Students who do not achieve the probationary conditions may withdraw voluntarily or, failing this, will be required to discontinue. In certain exceptional situations, the academic unit may
extend the probationary period with the new set of conditions, agreed to by the student, the College of
Nursing and the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. For more information on probationary
admission, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
for more information.
Certificate Requirements (12 credit units)
The Graduate Certificate – Foundations for Registered Nurse Specialty Practice consists of four core MN-NP courses. Students must complete the following courses:
NURS 879.3
NURS 881.3
NURS 884.3
NURS 886.3
Upon completion of the certificate, a student will be eligible for transfer of credit towards the Master of Nursing-Primary Health Care Nurse Practitioner program from the Graduate Certificate-Foundations for Registered Nurse Specialty Practice, if the courses are completed within 3 years of starting the Master of Nursing Primary Health Care Nurse Practitioner program.