# French

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/french/index.php

Arts and Science
French
French
Admissions
Academic policies
The Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultural Studies offers instruction in French language and literature, both in the original and in translation, and courses in the civilizations and cultures of France and French-Canada.
The study of second languages is fundamental for everyone. With globalization progressing at a rapid speed, communicating with people from a variety of cultural and linguistic backgrounds will become increasingly important, both in our professional and personal lives. Canada is a multicultural and multilingual nation. By studying other cultures and languages, we do not only learn about them, but also get a deeper understanding of ourselves.  Knowledge of second languages is important in many undergraduate and graduate programs, and will provide a competitive edge in any career.
Some courses in French are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These classes or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Courses and Programs Abroad: Students are strongly encouraged to complement their programs with study and travel abroad. By obtaining prior permission of the University they may be able to apply credits earned abroad towards a University of Saskatchewan degree. Attention is directed especially to the following Study Abroad programs:
FRANCE:
• Université Marc Bloch (Strasbourg)
• Université Robert Schumann (Strasbourg)
These programs have language requirements. For information on these and other programs, students should consult the Go Abroad website, or visit the new ISSAC (International Student and Study Abroad Center) located in Lower Place Riel, and contact the Department as early as possible.
Several book prizes and scholarships are available to students studying French as described in the Awards Guide, available online.
Senior courses are offered on a rotating basis, every two or three years.  Students are strongly encouraged to consult with the Department to plan an appropriate schedule.
Students who have completed the Immersion program in French to Grade 12, the ACFC program in French, or, the French program in a Designated School, must register in FREN 212 and FREN 218. Students having graduated from Grade 12 in an Immersion program will not be allowed to register in 100-level FREN courses for credit. Students with credit for French 30 (Grade 12 Core French) must take FREN 122 and FREN 125. Students with an additional background in French beyond the Grade 12 level must consult the Department before registering. Students who have received credit for Advanced Placement French or International Baccalaureate French may not take 100-level French language courses for credit. (Students receiving credit for IB French A2 may not take FREN 218).  For details, please visit the Prospective Students website or contact the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultural Studies.
Students taking
approved
summer immersion French language courses will receive transfer credit for junior or senior French which may be used to satisfy the French requirements for the Honours, Double Honours, Four-year, Three-year, Minor or Recognition in French, to a maximum of 6 credit units. Students who wish to obtain transfer credit for summer immersion courses must consult the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultural Studies in advance.
Courses taught in English cannot be used as part of a French Recognition, Minor, Major or Honours program. These courses can be used to fulfill the humanities requirement by non-majors, and to fulfill requirement 7 for majors.
Depending on a student's background, any of the following can be initial university courses: FREN 103, FREN 106, FREN 122, FREN 212. Two streams lead to advanced study: either FREN 122, FREN 125 and FREN 212; or FREN 212 and FREN 218
Frequency of Course Offerings
Not all courses listed in the Course & Program Catalogue are offered every year. Careful planning in consultation with the Department will eliminate problems.
Major Average
The major average in French programs includes the grades earned in:
All FREN courses
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in French, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement A4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
St. Thomas More College
Some courses in French are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - French
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - French
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - French
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - French - Major 1
Double Honours - French - Major 2
French - Minor