# Gender, Sexualities and Social Justice

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/gender-sexualities-and-social-justice/index.php

Graduate Programs
Gender, Sexualities and Social Justice
Master of Arts (M.A.) - Thesis-based
Gender, Sexualities and Social Justice
Master of Arts (M.A.) - Thesis-based
Academic policies
The interdisciplinary graduate program in Gender, Sexualities and Social Justice explores three areas of specialization: 1) Indigenous/transnational/international gender justice; 2) queer and sexualities studies; 3) gender, representation and cultural studies. Participating students are provided with opportunities to examine how knowledge production and power relations unfold through social, political, cultural and economic interactions that condition possibilities in relation to each of the areas of specialization, and to complete an advanced research thesis that contributes to this growing field of inter/disciplinary knowledge.
Focusing on an area of specialization, students will complete an advanced research thesis that contributes to this expanding field of interdisciplinary knowledge. Intake of students will occur every second year. Students will normally complete this program in two years.
Students may be accepted on a special case basis to the Ph.D. program. Please contact the department for more information.
For more information on this field of study, see the
Interdisciplinary Centre for Culture and Creativity
website.
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a completed on-line application, the application fee and all supporting application documents
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a four-year honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
See
program website
for application and deadline details.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in
WGST 994.0
.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
complete thesis and successful oral thesis defence
residency requirement of one academic calendar year
A minimum of 15 credit units, including the following
:
6 credit units of elective coursework, at the 800 level or senior undergraduate level, with approval of the Graduate Chair
GENS 800.3
GENS 990.0
GENS 994.0
Area of Specialization: at least 3 credit units from the following
:
GENS 810.3
GENS 811.3
GENS 812.3
Methods: at least 3 credit units from the following
:
ANTH 802.3
ENG 801.3
HIST 881.3
PSY 805.3
PSY 810.3
SOC 841.6
WGST 804.3 (U of R intensive)
or suitable research methods class germane to student project, approved on a case-by-case basis