# Geology

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/geology/index.php

Arts and Science
Geology
Geology
Admissions
Academic policies
Students interested in the origin, evolution, and future of Earth, and who wish to obtain a better understanding of the physical, chemical and biological processes that affect the development of the Earth System should consider a degree program within the Department of Geological Sciences.
Students who intend to specialize in Geology or Geophysics should pursue a four-year program leading to the B.Sc. Four-year or Honours degree. The four-year programs in Geology and Geophysics meet the minimum requirement for employment in industry, and, if sufficiently high standards are attained, for advancement to postgraduate studies. In most cases graduates will also qualify for registration as Professional Geoscientists in the Province of Saskatchewan. However, students are strongly advised to familiarize themselves with
APEGS requirements
and to seek advice from an advisor in the Department.
Students intending to work in other provinces or territories within Canada should familiarize themselves with the specific registration requirements for those regions. Such students are strongly advised to consult with an advisor in the Department, who is familiar with the subtle differences in registration requirements for the western provinces.
Degree Requirements
The Department of Geological Sciences is committed to delivering its courses to all qualified students admitted to its majors to the extent that the Department’s resources will allow. However, depending on resources, the Department may have to restrict access to all senior-level Geology courses. This restriction may be by registration through a departmental permission process. Priority will be given to qualified students in the Department’s majors who require the course(s) as part of their degree program, as set out in the Course & Program Catalogue, and who meet minimum academic standards as defined by the Department.
Therefore, students wishing to enrol in 200-level GEOL courses may be required to have attained a minimum final grade of at least 65% in GEOL 121 and GEOL 122. Meeting this requirement does not guarantee registration access. Depending upon the number of students wishing to enroll in Geology classes, the Department may restrict any student’s registration in any Geology course required for their program and, in some cases, to withdraw the student from registration in senior Geology courses.
Related programs
Students interested in Geology may also want to consider the related programs in
Environmental Geoscience
,
Palaeobiology
and
Hydrology.
Students may choose to complete a B.Sc. degree in Geology as well as a B.Sc. degree in Environmental Geoscience. Such students are strongly encouraged to consult with the department or an advisor in the Undergraduate Student Office before completing their first degree, to ensure that courses are selected in such a way to leave this option open.
Major Average
The major average in Geology programs includes the grades earned in:
All senior GEOL courses and all other courses listed in the Major Requirement C4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Geology, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement C4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science Honours (B.Sc. Honours) - Geology
Bachelor of Science Four-year (B.Sc. Four-year) - Geology
Bachelor of Science Three-year (B.Sc. Three-year) - Geology
Geology - Minor