# German or Recognition

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/german/index.php

Arts and Science
German
German
Academic policies
The Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultural Studies offers instruction in German language, culture, and literature.
The study of second languages is fundamental for everyone. With globalization progressing at a rapid speed, dealing with people from a variety of cultural and linguistic backgrounds will become increasingly important, both in our professional and personal lives. Canada is a multicultural and multilingual nation. By studying other cultures and languages, we do not only learn about them, but also get a deeper understanding of ourselves.  Knowledge of second languages is important in many undergraduate and graduate programs, and will provide a competitive edge in any career.
German is a language spoken in many European countries, but it is also one of the most important minority languages in Canada. Learning German will enable you to do business in some of the world’s most important markets and give you access to the riches of German literature, philosophy and sciences.
Courses and Programs Abroad: Students are strongly encouraged to complement their programs with study and travel abroad. There are a number of exchange, study and work abroad opportunities for students. By obtaining prior permission of the University they may be able to apply credits earned abroad towards a University of Saskatchewan degree. The University of Saskatchewan has established partnerships with the following universities in Germany:
GERMANY:
• Ernst-Moritz-Arndt Universität Greifswald (Greifswald)
• Philipps-Universität Marburg (Marburg)
• Carl von Ossietzky Universität Oldenburg (Oldenburg)
• Universität Rostock (Rostock)
• T. U. Darmstadt (Darmstadt)
These programs have language requirements. For information on these and other programs, students should contact the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultural Studies.
Scholarships and book prizes are available to students studying German as described in the Awards Guide, available online, and on the
Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultural Studies
homepage.
Courses in Language
: GERM 114.3, GERM 117.3, GERM 214.3, GERM 217.3, GERM 314.3, GERM 317.3
Courses in Literature taught in German
: GERM 365.3, GERM 366.3
Courses in culture taught in German
: GERM 202.3, GERM 204.3, GERM 266.3
St. Thomas More College
Some courses in German are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Programs
German - Minor
German - Recognition