# Governance Foundations for Sustainability Certificate

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/governance-foundations-sustainability/index.php

Graduate Programs
Governance Foundations for Sustainability
Governance Foundations for Sustainability
Graduate Certificate (G.Cert.)
Academic policies
Please note that no new applications will be accepted at this time.
The Graduate Certificate in Governance Foundations for Sustainability will help professionals who work with (or within) government agencies to better understand the basic structures of governance, actor groups and policy communities who influence governance, and the present-day imperatives of working with Indigenous peoples. Courses related to reconciliation and negotiation will also provide practical tools to become more effective practitioners when planning and implementing sustainability innovations.
Admission Requirements
a four-year degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study, OR a three-year first cycle undergraduate degree, in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study, from an institution that meets the criteria set forth in the
Bologna Declaration
, will be acceptable as the equivalent of an undergraduate degree.
a minimum cumulative weighted average of
at least
a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (e.g., 60 credit units)
Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English. A minimum overall TOEFL score of 86, a minimum overall IELTS score of 6.5, or another approved test as outlined by the
College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
. [
Note
: These are minimum language proficiency requirements; however, stronger scores are generally expected for successful entry into the program.]
A completed online application, the application fee, and all supporting application documents including:
Statement of Intent
: Applicants must provide a written Statement of Intent (1000-word maximum) describing why they want to join the program and how their expertise, work and/or volunteer experience make them an ideal candidate for the program.
This statement is a key component in adjudicating each applicant’s suitability for the program.
Letters of reference
: Applicants will need to provide three letters of reference—either academic or professional letters.  In their letters of reference, all referees should speak to the applicant’s ability for success in a graduate program.
o
Up-to-date Curriculum Vitae
: Applicants must include all post-secondary education, work
experiences, and any publications, presentations, and awards.
Probationary Admission
: Applicants whose qualifications do not meet the minimum requirements
listed above
or whose academic qualifications are difficult to assess may be admitted on a probationary status to
the
program. Applicants in this category may, in some situations,
be required to take one or more preparatory courses to improve their qualifications. In this case, they will be required to pay additional fees. The student’s
probationary
status will be reviewed after a specified amount of academic work is completed. If progress is satisfactory, the Program Director or Graduate Chair
will
recommend to CGPS that the student be considered fully qualified. Students who do not achieve the probationary conditions may withdraw voluntarily or, failing this, will be required to discontinue. In certain exceptional situations, the academic unit may extend the probationary period with a new set of conditions, agreed to by the student and by CGPS.
Certificate Requirements (8 credit units)
The certificate can be taken as a stand-alone program or the certificate can be applied to the completion of the Master of Sustainability (M.Ss).
ENVS 818.1 (This course is required for all the graduate certificates. Students that have successfully completed this course previously will not be required to repeat it.)
A minimum of
7 credit units
comprised of the following:
ENVS 882.2
ENVS 884.1 or ENVS 885.1
ENVS 886.2
ENVS 834.2