# Governance and Entrepreneurship in Northern and Indigenous Areas

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/governance-entrepreneurship-northern-indigenous-areas/index.php

Graduate Programs
Governance and Entrepreneurship in Northern and Indigenous Areas
Master of Governance and Entrepreneurship in Northern and Indigenous Areas (M.G.E.N.I.A.) - Project-based
Governance and Entrepreneurship in Northern and Indigenous Areas
Master of Governance and Entrepreneurship in Northern and Indigenous Areas (M.G.E.N.I.A.) - Project-based
Academic policies
Please note that no new applications will be accepted at this point.
The GENI program is a joint degree program delivered and administered with UiT The Arctic University of Norway (UiT). GENI is interdisciplinary and is open to students from a wide variety of educational backgrounds. Students applying for the Master's program require a Bachelor's degree or equivalent qualification in the social sciences, law or education. The program is project-based and provides a flexible course schedule in which all the requirements can be completed four years of part-time study or two-years of full-time study.
For more information, see the
Graduate School of Public Policy
website.
Admission Requirements
A cumulative weighted average of at least 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of full-time study (i.e. 60 credit units U of S equivalent).
A four-year undergraduate degree, or equivalent from a recognized college or university in academic fields of the socials sciences, law or education, OR,
A three-year first cycle undergraduate degree, in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study, from an institution that meets the criteria set forth in the Bologna Declaration, will be acceptable as the equivalent of an undergraduate honours degree.
Applicants will be selected by the GENI Program Board, which will include representatives of the Johnson Shoyama Graduate School of Public Policy and the Sami Study Centre (SESAM, UiT).
Applicants will need to successfully complete the online application form and pay the $120 CAD application fee.
Applicants are required to provide the following information and documents:
All unofficial PDF copies of your academic transcript(s) from each post-secondary institution attended, including a grading key/legend.
Three references which two of these referees must be academic, and one must be professional. If you have had a substantial study break, you can include all professional references.
Statement of purpose (approximately two pages), and should include the following:
What has motivated you to pursue an online master's degree focused on northern and Indigenous areas?
How has your personal background, education, and/pr professional experience prepared you for the core themes and research methods you will encounter in the program?
Writing sample, such as a term paper or essay, that demonstrates writing and analytical ability.
Scanned image of your valid passport.
Language Proficiency Requirements:
Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants. Proof of English proficiency may be demonstrated through
one
of the following:
A minimum of three consecutive years of full-time study or completion of a graduate degree at a recognized post-secondary institution, where the
exclusive
language of instruction and examination of the program and/or institution is English – view
eligible institutions
Meeting the minimum score requirements for one of the approved language tests:
Duolingo English Test (DET) with a minimum overall score of 115 with a minimum score of 95 in each area.
TOEFL iBT (internet-based) with a minimum overall score of 86 with a minimum score of 19 in each area.
IELTS with a minimum overall score of 6.5 with no score below 6.0 in each area.
Cambridge C1 Advanced with a minimum overall score of 176, or
PTE Academic (Pearson Test of English) with a minimum overall score of 63 with a minimum score of 59 in each area.
The language requirement does not apply to students who qualify for the Norwegian Higher Education Entrance Qualification (NHEEQ). Whether a student meets the Norwegian Higher Education Entrance Qualification will be confirmed by UiT. Please direct all inquiries about the application process to the Johnson Shoyama Graduate School of Public Policy to
jsgs@usask.ca
Degree Requirements
GENI students are required to complete a minimum of 34 credit units of coursework, along with a research project equivalent to 14 U of S credit units (equivalent to 120 ECTS at UiT). The required elements include required coursework, electives, an applied research project, a project and the 990 seminars. Students must complete the following required courses:
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
IND-3012 Research Methods and Indigenous Ethics (UiT course equivalent to 2 credit units)
IND-3014 Negotiations and Consultations in Indigenous and Northern Areas (UiT course equivalent to 4 credit units)
JSGS 806.3
JUR-3621 Indigenous Peoples Rights (UiT course equivalent to 4 credit units)
NORD 806.1
NORD 830.2
NORD 835.2
NORD 847.4
NORD 857.4
NORD 870.2
NORD 990.0 (Students must maintain continuous registration in this course through the program)
NORD 992.0 (U of S), IND-3901 (UiT equivalent to 14 U of S credit units). Students must maintain continuous registration in NORD 992 through the program. Students will register in IND-3901 while completing project work.
STV-3040 Northern Governance (UiT) (equivalent to POLS 855.4)
Students must complete 2 credit units of electives subject to approval from the Program Director