# Hydrology

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/hydrology/index.php

Arts and Science
Hydrology
Hydrology
Admissions
Academic policies
Do you enjoy interdisciplinary work in the physical sciences focused on investigating issues related to water security? The Hydrology program might be the right fit for you! The interdisciplinary program in Hydrology is built on a core of foundation science (100-level and 200-level courses): biology, chemistry, geology, mathematics, physics, and statistics. These courses contribute to the rigorous multi-disciplinary training offered through these programs.
Program curricula demand student engagement with the full suite of hydrology courses offered by the Department of Geography and Planning, including social sciences perspectives related to water security. An important component of the program requirements is the acquisition of quantitative skills: field and laboratory methods, computing and data visualization, and multivariate and spatial statistics).
The B.Sc. in Hydrology programs are designed to meet the requirements for professional accreditation as Geoscientists-in-Training in the Province of Saskatchewan through the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of Saskatchewan (see Environmental Geoscience U of S course list available at https://www.apegs.ca/Portal/Pages/canadian-geoscience-graduates).
Note
: Students declaring their Major in Hydrology are advised to complete the following suite of courses within the first 60 credit units of their programs: CHEM 112; EVSC 220; GEOG 120, GEOG 222,
GEOG
225,
GEOG
235,
GEOG
290; GEOL 121; MATH 110, MATH 116.3; PHYS 115; STAT 245 or PLSC 214.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Hydrology, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum senior requirements in Major Requirement C4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science Honours (B.Sc. Honours) - Hydrology
Bachelor of Science Four-year (B.Sc. Four-year) - Hydrology
Co-operative Education Option in Hydrology