# Hydrology Certificate

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/hydrology-cert/index.php

Graduate Programs
Hydrology
Hydrology
Graduate Certificate (G.Cert.)
Admissions
Academic policies
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements
: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English. A minimum overall TOEFL score of 86 is required with a minimum score of 20 in each area, or a minimum overall IELTS score of 6.5 with a minimum score of 6.0 in each area, or another approved test as outlined in the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e., 60 credit units)
a four-year honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study OR 5 years professional experience in hydrology or related science OR 3 years professional experience in hydrology or related science, plus a 2-year diploma or certificate
evidence of taking an undergraduate course in hydrology equivalent to GEOG 325, 328 or 427 offered at the U of S
Certificate Requirements (9 credit units)
The Graduate Certificate in Hydrology provides students with applied skills for professional practice in physical Hydrology. Focused on concepts, tools, quantitative methods, and field skills, the certificate is designed for those currently working, or wanting to work, in both applied water resources fields and water science institutions. The certificate is valuable to individuals wanting to complement their current skillsets or postsecondary training. The courses that comprise this certificate will be given online or intensively with online options to facilitate participation of graduate students from other universities and of professionals from across Canada and around the world. This certificate can be taken as a standalone program or used to ladder into a graduate degree program.
Students may complete the three courses to satisfy the certificate requirements at their own pace to a maximum of 36 months. All courses will be given intensively and sequentially at the U of Calgary Kananaskis Field Station, Alberta.
Minimum course requirements are as follows
:
GEOG 825.3
GEOG 827.3
GEOG 836.3