# Indigenous Studies

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/indigenous-studies/index.php

Arts and Science
Indigenous Studies
Indigenous Studies
Admissions
Academic policies
The Indigenous Studies curriculum provides a thorough academic examination of aspects of Aboriginal life and histories using a three-tiered paradigm of the local, the national, and the global to examine separate yet interrelated social phenomena. Students will be exposed to a variety of perspectives, world views, sources and intellectual traditions while they seek to link the processes of the past with contemporary issues. Successful graduates will have the skills and knowledge that will enable them to contribute constructively to the intellectual, cultural, political, or economical capital of Aboriginal societies.
3 credit units of 100-level Indigenous Studies is required for all degree programs in Indigenous Studies.  3 credit units of 100-level Indigenous Studies and 3 credit units of an approved 100-level Social Science course are the prerequisites to all other Indigenous Studies courses unless otherwise noted in the course descriptions. In special circumstances, prerequisites for senior Indigenous Studies courses may be waived; see the course instructor to secure a waiver.
Major Average
The major average in Indigenous Studies programs includes the grades earned in:
All INDG courses
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Indigenous Studies, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Indigenous Studies
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Indigenous Studies
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Indigenous Studies
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Indigenous Studies - Major 1
Double Honours - Indigenous Studies - Major 2
Indigenous Studies - Minor