# Kinesiology - Exercise and Sport Studies

College: Kinesiology
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/kinesiology/exercise-and-sport-studies/index.php

Kinesiology
Exercise and Sport Studies
Exercise and Sport Studies
Admissions
Academic policies
First year students must register in these required first year courses. Upper year students are encouraged to choose a study route in consultation with the Manager, Undergraduate Student Academic Services. The Exercise and Sport Studies route allows for the greatest flexibility in course.
Note
: KIN 398.3, KIN 498.3 and KIN 499.6 are the course numbers given to courses that are being piloted in the College of Kinesiology.  These courses can be used towards college electives within the College of Kinesiology in the Exercise and Sport Studies Route and the Exercise and Sport Studies Route (Honours).
Bachelor of Science Honours Program
The College of Kinesiology offers an Honours Program in Exercise and Sport Studies to students of proven academic ability, providing them with an opportunity to pursue a more advanced program of studies within this area of specialization.
Students will apply to the honours program in Winter Term of Year 3; contact the
Manager, Undergraduate Student Academic Services
for the deadline for applications. The requirement for acceptance into the Honours program is an average of at least 75% in the last 30 credit units taken. All courses taken in a given term will be included, and in the case where more than 30 credit units have been taken, the total of all courses will be included in the average calculation. All applicants must have completed at least 5 of the following 6 required core Kinesiology courses before Winter Term of the year they make their application. These courses are:
KIN 222.3
KIN 225.3
KIN 226.3
KIN 231.3
KIN 322.3
CPPS 221.3
The requirement for acceptance to the Honours program is an average of at least 75% in the last 30 credit units taken. This includes courses taken in the Fall Term of the application year. Courses used for the average calculation are included by term. In some cases, this may mean that more than 30 credit units are used. The average will be calculated by the College of Kinesiology. Successful applicants will be notified by May 30th of their third year.
Programs
Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology [B.Sc.(Kin.)] - Exercise and Sport Studies
Bachelor of Science in Kinesiology Honours [B.Sc.(Kin.)] - Exercise and Sport Studies