# Large Animal Specialty Veterinary Internship Certificate

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/large-animal-specialty-internship-certificate/index.php

Graduate Programs
Large Animal Specialty Veterinary Internship
Large Animal Specialty Veterinary Internship
Graduate Certificate (G.Cert.)
Academic policies
A one-year post-D.V.M. experiential clinical training programs for newly graduated veterinarians to obtain focused clinical experiences under the supervision of the faculty specialists practicing in the Large Animal Clinic and Field Service of the Veterinary Medical Centre. This certificate program serves as the first step in specialty training preparing candidates for clinical residency/graduate degree training programs leading to board certification in a specific specialty (e.g. Medicine, Surgery, Theriogenology, Equine Field Service, or Food Animal Field Service).
Admission Requirements
Applicants must be accepted for an internship to be eligible for admission to the certificate program.
A Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (D.V.M.) or equivalent degree from a recognized college or university.
A cumulative weighted entrance average of at least 70% (USask grade system equivalent). The cumulative weighted average will be calculated based on the most recently completed graduate-level degree or 60 graded credit units (i.e., the last two years of full-time graded coursework) at the time of application.
Eligibility for educational licensure with the Saskatchewan Veterinary Medical Association, to practice veterinary medicine in Saskatchewan.
Language Proficiency Requirement: Proof of English proficiency may be required for applicants to graduate programs. Proof of English proficiency may be demonstrated through:
A minimum of three consecutive years of full-time study or completion of a graduate degree at a recognized post-secondary institution, where the exclusive language of instruction and examination of the program and/or institution is English; or,
Provision of evidence of English language proficiency, using one of the approved tests listed in the English Language Proficiency Policy,
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
Certificate Requirements
Students may choose one of the following concentrations depending upon their choice of specialty: Large Animal Medicine, Large Animal Surgery, Theriogenology, Equine Field Service, or Food Animal Field Service.
A minimum of 9 credit units of graduate courses, including the following:
6 credit units of core courses:
VLAC 825.3
VLAC 826.3
3 credit units of electives
VLAC 980.0
VLAC 990.0
GPS 960.0
GPS 962.0