# Law

College: Law
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/law/juris-doctor/index.php

Law
Juris Doctor
Juris Doctor (J.D.)
Juris Doctor
Juris Doctor (J.D.)
Admissions
Academic policies
The program of studies leading to the degree of Juris Doctor (J.D.) requires a minimum of three years of study in the College of Law at the University of Saskatchewan.
In order to obtain the degree of Juris Doctor, a student must satisfy the requirements for admission; register annually for the prescribed courses; pay the required fees; regularly attend classes; pass examinations and courses as prescribed; and, successfully complete all  program requirements. Upper year requirements include a minor research paper, a major research paper, a seminar, an upper-year Indigenous law course, an Ethics course, and Administrative Law. Students must achieve grades at the level set out in the College Assessment Regulations. Students may not take additional courses in other faculties without the permission of the Associate Dean, Academic.
Students in the Juris Doctor (J.D.) program may complete the regular program, or they may choose to complete the J.D. French Common Law Option (Certification in Common Law in French (CCLF)—a partnership with the University of Ottawa Faculty of Law). While both programs require the completion of a total of 90 credit units, the French Common Law Option includes specific courses, including some at the University of Ottawa, which are in French. Please see the specific requirements for that  program.
Students pursuing the part-time program must obtain approval from the Associate Dean, Academic.
Upper year students who withdraw from the College may require permission of the Associate Dean, Academic to return. Students who withdraw prior to completing first year typically have to reapply for re-admission in competition with other students applying for admission in that year.
Students ordinarily must complete the J.D. requirements within six years. Students wishing to complete the J.D. requirements beyond this period must obtain permission from the College of Law Board of Examiners. One or more leaves of absence of up to two years in total are permitted upon notification being given to the Associate Dean, Academic prior to the deadline for registration changes.
Information on academic requirements for promotion and graduation may be found in the
College of Law Academic Regulations
.
Programs
Juris Doctor (J.D.)
French Common Law Option (CCLF)