# Law

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/law/index.php

Graduate Programs
Law
Master of Laws (LL.M.) - Thesis-based
Law
Master of Laws (LL.M.) - Thesis-based
Admissions
Academic policies
The Master of Laws (LL.M.) program is offered through the College of Law by the
College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
at the University of Saskatchewan. The LL.M. program is thesis-based, offering supervision in a wide range of areas, including Aboriginal, commercial, constitutional, criminal and human rights law.
It is a full-time program and extends for approximately 12-16 months, with a 12-month residency requirement. Candidates are required to complete a minimum of 9 credit units, including Law 828.3 - Graduate Jurisprudence Seminar and 6 credit units of elective courses.  With faculty approval, one of the required courses may be taken outside the College of Law in an associated discipline. All students must undertake original research leading to a thesis of publishable quality.
For more information on this field of study, see the
College of Law
website.
Note: receipt of the LL.M. degree does not automatically qualify a student for admission to the Bar in Canada
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a Juris Doctor or Bachelor of Laws degree, or equivalent law degree, from a recognized college or university
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in the 994 and 990 courses.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
a residency requirement of 12 months
A minimum of 9 credit units, including the following:
LAW 828.3
LAW 990.0
LAW 994.0