# Leadership Certificate

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/leadership-cert/index.php

Graduate Programs
Leadership
Leadership
Graduate Certificate (G.Cert.)
Admissions
Academic policies
Admission Requirements
This certificate may be used to ladder into the Master of Business Administration program.
Language Proficiency Requirements
: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English. A minimum overall TOEFL score of 86 is required with a minimum score of 20 in each area, or a minimum overall IELTS score of 6.5 with a minimum score of 6.0 in each area, or another approved test as outlined in the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
A cumulative weighted average of at least 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two
years of study (i.e. 60 credit units).
A four-year degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university.
Applicants with three-year degrees and strong demonstrable potential for success in the
program may be considered for admission. All applicants will be considered using a
holistic admissions approach.
Statement of Intent
: Applicants must provide a written Statement of Intent (1000-word
maximum) describing why they want to undertake the program and how their expertise, work
and/or volunteer experience make them an ideal candidate for the program and their chosen
field of study. This statement is a key component in adjudicating each applicant’s suitability to
the program. An interview may also be required to assess language proficiency.
Current resume detailing positions held and a description of responsibilities.
Two years of leadership* experience. Emerging leaders who have fewer than two years of leadership experience who demonstrate exceptional leadership potential through their
professional and life experiences, are preparing for further leadership roles, and otherwise meet
the standard admissions criteria, are encouraged to apply. Please ensure that you demonstrate
your leadership experience in your detailed resume and Statement of Intent.
Three confidential letters of recommendation (minimum one academic).
Applicants are assessed on a holistic basis for admission purposes. We look at a variety of factors when making admission decisions including undergraduate degree, grade point average, work experience, and reference letters. Applicants whose qualifications do not meet the minimum requirements are encouraged to contact the Edwards graduate programs office to discuss potential opportunities for admission.
Applicants whose qualifications do not meet the minimum requirements or whose academic qualifications are difficult to assess may be offered admission with conditions to a program. Applicants in this category will be required to participate in an interview with the Edwards Graduate Programs Admissions Committee and may be required to take certain preparatory courses to improve their qualifications. In this case they will be required to pay additional fees. The student’s status will be reviewed after a specified amount of academic work is completed. If progress is satisfactory, the Edwards Graduate Programs Admissions Committee may recommend to the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies (CGPS) that the student be considered fully qualified. Students who do not achieve the conditions set out in the offer of admission may withdraw voluntarily or, failing to do so, will be required to discontinue. In certain exceptional situations, the academic unit may extend the conditions deadline with a new set of conditions, agreed to by the student and by CGPS.
*Leadership experience could include (but is not limited to) one or more of the following:
Formal leadership role within an organization or volunteer group
Extensive, high-level supervisory experience
Experience in consulting or negotiating change in a complex environment
Experience leading others to shared outcomes (informal leadership experience)
Certificate Requirements (9 credit units)
The Graduate Certificate in Leadership (GCL) is a three-course program that introduces students to the
fundamentals of leadership. Graduates of this program will be effective leaders, understand the
complex interplay between business and society, and be effective contributors to team performance.
All three of the courses in this program are fully transferrable to the Master of Business Administration
(MBA) degree at the University of Saskatchewan.
Students must maintain continuous registration in MBA 890.0.
MBA 803.3
MBA 813.3
MBA 877.3
MBA 890.0