# Linguistics

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/linguistics/index.php

Graduate Programs
Linguistics
Master of Arts (M.A.) - Thesis-Based
Linguistics
Master of Arts (M.A.) - Thesis-Based
Admissions
Academic policies
This program is recommended for all students interested in a graduate program of studies and research in applied linguistics. It targets students who are interested in the vast area of language and linguistics research and in interdisciplinary interactions of language studies with computer science, psychology, communication, or other areas. This program is expected to be completed within two years of study.
For more information on this field of study, see the
Department of Linguistics
website.
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a four-year or honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study
a minimum of 12 credit units of Linguistics or Applied Linguistics courses at the undergraduate level. Determination of Equivalence of a course may require a submission of course syllabus.
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in the 994 course.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
LING  990.0
LING 994.0
Students are advised that in cases when their proposed research involves human participants, they are required to submit an Ethics application and receive the approval of the Research Ethics Board prior to conducting the study.
General Linguistics Concentration
Students must complete
15 credit units
, as follows:
LING 804.3
LING 815.3
LING 816.3
OR
LING 817.3
3 credit units
LING 800-level class
3 credit units
in 800-level class in ECUR, LING, PHIL, PSY
Applied Linguistics Concentration
Students must complete
15 credit units
, as follows:
LING 803.3
LING 818.3
LING 819.3
LING 820.3
3 credit units
at the 800-level in ECUR, LING, PHIL, PSY