# Management

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/management/index.php

Graduate Programs
Management
Master of Science (M.Sc.) - Thesis-based
Management
Master of Science (M.Sc.) - Thesis-based
Admissions
Academic policies
Students enrolled in the M.Sc. Management program will take a minimum of 15 credit units as specified below. Students must select one of the following three specializations/majors: finance, marketing, or management research. Thesis topics in the management research specialization/major could be in human resources, organizational behaviour, strategy, management science, accounting, data analytics, and more depending on the preparation and interest of students and capacity/expertise of faculty.
Admission Requirements
Letter of intent
Three letters of reference (at least two academic references);
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English;
A cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units);
GMAT Score of 550 or equivalent GRE*;
A four-year degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study, or a three-year first cycle undergraduate
degree, in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study, from an institution
that meets the criteria set forth in the Bologna Declaration, will be acceptable as the equivalent
of an undergraduate degree;
Note
that students pursuing a finance specialty must have at least 6 U of S equivalent credit units (1 year) of Statistics, 6 equivalent credit units of Economics (1 year), and 3 U of S equivalent credit units (1/2 year) of Calculus.
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
for more information.
Each applicant package will be reviewed holistically to assess their skills, personal attributes, background, and experiences, and how these relate to success in the MSc program. An interview may be
included as part of this review.
*While a minimum GMAT score of 550 is required, the GMAT requirement may be waived if:
An applicant has successfully completed a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the Edwards
School of Business within this last 10 years and achieved an average of 75% in their last two
years of full-time study (60 credit units)
An applicant has successfully completed an undergraduate business degree from an
accredited Canadian business school (i.e.: AACSB or EQUIS) and has a converted entrance
average of a minimum of 80% in the last two years of full-time study (60 credit units)
An applicant has significant Canadian research experience, which could include the
successful completion of an extensive research project for an advanced undergraduate
course, or a minimum of one year working as a research associate for a research group or
firm.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in the 994 course.
MGT 990.0
MGT 994.0
Students must take a minimum of 15 credit units as specified below. Students must select one of the
following three specializations/majors: Finance, Marketing, or Management Research.
A minimum of 6 credit units in research methods, including the following:
Finance specialization
:
One of ECON 804.3, ECON 808.3, JSGS 803.3, or STAT 845.3 or quantitative research methods course approved by supervisor
FIN 803.3
Marketing & Management Research specializations
:
MGT 801.3
MGT 808.3 or 3 cu quantitative research methods course as approved by supervisor.
A minimum of 6 credit units at the 800-level including:
6 credit units of coursework related to area of specialization
The finance specialization must include at least two of the following:
FIN 801.3
FIN 802.3
FIN 805.3
The marketing specialization must include the following:
MKT 802.3
MKT 803.3
The management research specialization may include independent study courses
A minimum of 3 credit units of elective coursework