# Marketing

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/marketing/index.php

Graduate Programs
Marketing
Master of Science (M.Sc.) - Thesis-based
Marketing
Master of Science (M.Sc.) - Thesis-based
Academic policies
No new applications will be accepted at this time. Please contact the Graduate Programs Office, Edwards School of Business for more information.
The Master of Science (M.Sc.) in Marketing is designed to instill a deep academic understanding of the discipline of marketing with a particular focus on the sub-discipline of Consumer Behaviour. Graduates will be prepared for further study at the Ph.D. level. Alternatively, if the graduate prefers, he or she would also be prepared for a career in industry as a market analyst specialist.
Admission Requirements
GMAT Score of 550 or equivalent GRE.
Note: Results from one of the recognized standardized tests (GMAT or GRE) must be submitted. The requirement to satisfy the minimum score will be waived if the applicant’s admission average is 80% or higher or if the applicant has significant research experience. Significant research experience could include the successful completion of a research-based undergraduate honours degree, successful completion of an extensive research project for an advanced undergraduate course, or a minimum of one year working as a research associate for a research group or firm.*
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a four-year honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
for more information.
*Both the GMAT Exam and GMAT Focus Edition will be accepted.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in the 994 course.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
A minimum of 15 credit units, including the following:
3 credit units in 800-level statistical or quantitative methods as approved by the department (for example ERES 841.3)
MGT 808.3 or 3 credit units in 800-level qualitative methods as approved by the department (for example ERES 845.3)
MKT 801.3
MKT 802.3
MKT 803.3
MKT 990.0 Seminar
MKT 994.0 Thesis
thesis defense
additional courses, if recommended by the student's Advisory Committee
Students are strongly encouraged to present their research at one of a variety of possible conferences, such as Rupert’s Land, ASAC, ACR, and SCP.
A minimum of 3 credit units of electives, as approved by the Program Committee. Possible electives include the following:
MKT 857.3
PSY 802.3
PSY 807.3
PSY 810.3
PSY 862.3
TA Success Series, GPS 989, or equivalent
To complete teaching development requirements as a M.Sc. Marketing student, please complete four of the activities (see below). Once completed, these activities will appear on your Co-Curricular Record. A copy of that record should be sent to the graduate chair to demonstrate completion.
Timeline: All four activities can be completed by the end of September. It is recommended that you complete them during the fall term.
1. Workshops & Reflection
Students attend 7 sessions and then write a reflection for each. Guiding questions for the reflections will be provided (e.g., what were the key ideas/skills from the session, what is one thing that you learned about and will make use of as a TA/educator). Submit each reflection on Blackboard Learn. Workshops available:
- Fall Fortnight for Teaching and Learning
- TA Success Day
A full-day of sessions focused on developing specific skills and knowledge relevant to teaching as a TA including on marking effectively, lesson planning, and facilitating labs, problem-set tutorials and seminars.
2. Practice in grading session
A two-hour hands-on session about developing marking schemes (rubrics) and providing feedback. Attend session and submit reflection on Blackboard Learn.
Two of the following:
A. Practice in Lesson Planning
In this two-hour, hands-on session, you will be able to develop strong learning objectives around which you will build solid lesson plans. The lesson plan template used in this workshop will help you to draw students’ interest, determine prior learning, incorporate participatory learning, and select appropriate assessment strategies to measure students’ learning. Attend and submit reflection on Blackboard Learn.
B. Observation of and conversation with an Instructor or experienced TA
Arrange to meet with and observe an instructor or experienced TA who is teaching a lesson/tutorial to discuss their approach and process for teaching. Look for choices in teaching strategies, how they interact with students, his or her assessment strategies, etc. Organize, complete, and submit reflection on Blackboard Learn.
C. Give a guest lecture
Organize a guest lecture in a suitable course. As part of the lecture, request feedback from professor, students, and from a GMCTL educational development specialist. Organize, complete, and submit reflection on Blackboard Learn. Note: GMCTL staff can help with planning the formative feedback forms for your students, or meet with you when planning the session, but does not arrange guest lecture opportunities. This option is recommended if you are interested in teaching or plan to have a role that involves teaching.