# Mathematics

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/mathematics/index.php

Arts and Science
Mathematics
Mathematics
Admissions
Academic policies
Programs in Mathematics
The following descriptions indicate minimum program requirements. Courses bearing the "MATH" and the "STAT" abbreviations are considered as being in different subjects. The number of credit units of "STAT" courses that may be included in a Mathematics major is limited. Please consult the following information for details.
Related programs
A program in Applied Mathematics has been designed to provide undergraduate students the opportunity to study Mathematics with an emphasis on the utility of the subject toward the quantitative study of a discipline other than Mathematics. Interested students should consult the
Applied Mathematics
program.
The Departments of Mathematics and Statistics, and Physics and Engineering Physics have developed an interdisciplinary program in Mathematical Physics. Interested students, particularly students interested in applied mathematics and theoretical physics, should consult the
Mathematical Physics
program.
Important Notes
Students who have not taken all of the required courses in their second year are encouraged to discuss alternate routes with the Head of the Department.
Students intending to enter the third or fourth year of a program leading to the Honours degree are required to consult with the Head of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics or designate for approval of an acceptable program.
In exceptional circumstances a student may be prepared to take a graduate mathematics or statistics course in the final year. Students wishing approval to take such a course and to count it towards the Honours requirements must consult with the department's Undergraduate Committee. All course substitutions in a student’s program require approval by the Undergraduate Student Office, College of Arts and Science.
Students who complete an introductory course in statistical methodology that is essentially equivalent to
STAT 242
may use such a course to satisfy the prerequisite requirements provided by
STAT 242. However, such students will be required to add an additional approved 3 credit-unit course in statistics, mathematics or an area of application to their programs.
Junior MATH course credits
Up to 15 credit units may be obtained from the first-year offerings in mathematics depending on the courses taken and the order in which they are taken. For detailed information on which courses may be taken for credit please see the
Academic Information and Pol
icies
section.
Major Average
The major average in Mathematics programs includes the grades earned in:
All MATH and STAT courses approved for inclusion in the Major Requirement C4. For the B.Sc. Honours program only, CMPT 141 will also be included if taken.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Mathematics, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement C4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Science Honours (B.Sc. Honours) - Mathematics
Bachelor of Science Four-year (B.Sc. Four-year) - Mathematics
Bachelor of Science Three-year (B.Sc. Three-year) - Mathematics
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Mathematics - Major 1
Double Honours - Mathematics - Major 2
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Mathematics and Computer Science - Majors 1 and 2
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Mathematics and Statistics - Majors 1 and 2
Mathematics - Minor