# Modern Languages

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/modern-languages/index.php

Arts and Science
Modern Languages
Modern Languages
Admissions
Academic policies
Students choosing the Modern Languages Degree will be combining two (or more) languages in conjunction with courses in linguistics and comparative literature. This allows students to gain a broader understanding of different cultures, the literature of their chosen area and the structure and functioning of languages through linguistics. The focus primarily revolves around language learning; however some students also discover an entirely new interest in literature or linguistics.
Primary Language course options:
French
Spanish
Students in Modern Languages may not earn a Minor in the same language chosen as the Primary Language.
Some language courses are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM section in the online Course Offerings.
Frequency of Course Offerings
Not all courses listed in the
Course & Program Catalogue
are offered every year. Careful planning in consultation with the Department will eliminate problems.
Major Average
The major average in Modern Language programs includes the grades earned in:
All courses listed in the Major Requirement A4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Modern Languages, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement A4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
St. Thomas More College
Some language courses are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Modern Languages
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Modern Languages