# Music

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/music/index.php

Arts and Science
Music
Music
Admissions
Academic policies
Degrees in Music
The School for the Arts offers programs in the College of Arts and Science leading to the Bachelor of Music degree (B.Mus.) and to the Bachelor of Arts degree (B.A.) with a major in Music.
The Bachelor of Music programs are designed to be taken in four years of study, and are offered in two areas of specialization: Individualized and Performance (Honours). Each of the areas shares a common first year. A major may be declared in the first year, or may be decided or recommended, upon entry to the second year, based on student strengths and interests. Students must declare an area of specialization by the end of the second year.
See the Music Education page for information on the Bachelor of Music (Music Education).
Information about Graduate Studies in Music can be obtained by contacting the school.
Scholarships and financial aid available to music students are described  by searching for "music" in the
Awards Guide
, available online.
General Information
The School for the Arts at the University of Saskatchewan offers courses for those who desire a major in music as well as elective courses in music. Access to music courses requires prerequisites as listed or permission of the school.
Concerts and Recitals
On the campus many concerts and recitals are presented each year by outstanding artists. A valuable adjunct to any student's education is the opportunity to attend the guest artist series and any music ensemble concerts and student recitals offered by the school. Note that the series involves a fee for tickets. Many significant concerts and recitals are also available in the community.
Standards of Academic Performance
It is the expectation of the  School for the Arts that students attend all rehearsals, recitals, and applied lessons as scheduled. Class attendance policy as established by the University is also to be followed.
Notes on Program Requirements
For students majoring in Music, who take several 100-level courses in the subject of their major, the first 6 100-level credit units taken will be counted as junior and the remaining 100-level courses in that subject will be counted as senior.
Students pursing a degree in Music (B.A. or B.Mus.) may not take
MUS 101
or
MUS 105
for credit.
Students are strongly advised to contact the school when planning their programs, to ensure timely completion of all requirements.
Applied Music
The Applied Music area of study is the individual or class study of keyboard, strings, voice, winds or percussion in a prescribed program consisting of technical studies and solo repertoire. The emphasis in all Applied Study (MUAP) courses is upon solo and ensemble literature, orchestral and choral studies (where applicable), the advancement of technique, and the development of interpretation and comprehension. All students involved in Applied Music will be required to participate in an approved instrumental or choral ensemble as indicated in the program.
Applied Music Private Study (MUAP) courses are only available to students in the B.Mus. programs.
Applied Music (MUAP) ensemble courses are open to all students on campus.
Music Ensembles
The school offers a number of performing ensemble courses, in which all university students may enroll for credit or as a no-credit option. Descriptions of each ensemble and information on how to enroll in each is available on the
Music
website.
Bachelor of Music (Music Education) (B.Mus.(Mus.Ed.))
The School for the Arts also offers a Bachelor of Music in Music Education for students who intend to teach music in elementary or secondary schools. Interested students should refer to Music Education in this section of the Course & Program Catalogue.
Alternating of Courses
Students should be advised that not all courses listed in the Calendar are offered in any given year. Some courses are given in alternate years. Careful planning in consultation with the school will eliminate any problems.
Major Average
The major average in Music programs (B.A. and B.Mus.) includes the grades earned in:
All MUS, EMUS, and MUAP courses
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a B.A. degree in Music, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement D4.
To receive a Bachelor of Music, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
All required credit units in MUS, EMUS and MUAP courses.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Music
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Music
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Music
Bachelor of Music Individualized (B.Mus. Individualized)
Bachelor of Music Performance Honours (B.Mus. Performance Honours)