# Music Education

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/music-education/index.php

Arts and Science
Music Education
Music Education
Admissions
Academic policies
Students interested in teaching music must contact the School for the Arts for information on the Bachelor of Music degree in Music Education (B.Mus.(Mus.Ed.)).
Upon completion of the four year B.Mus.(Mus.Ed.) program students may choose to complete the Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.) degree. Please visit
admission.usask.ca
for information.
For detailed information about the Bachelor of Education degree please see the
Education
section of the Course and Program Catalogue.
Scholarships and financial aid available to music students are described in the
Awards Guide
, available online. (Once at the link, click “Search Awards”, and then enter “music” in the keywords field.)
General Information
The School for the Arts at the University of Saskatchewan offers courses for those who desire a major in music as well as elective courses in music. Access to some music courses requires prerequisites as listed or permission of the Department.
Concerts and Recitals
On campus many concerts and recitals are presented each year by outstanding artists. A valuable adjunct to any student's education is the opportunity to attend the guest artist series and any departmental ensemble and student recitals. Note that the series involves a fee for tickets. Many significant concerts and recitals are also available in the community.
Standards of Academic Performance
Students in music programs are expected to attend all rehearsals, recitals, and applied lessons as scheduled. The class attendance policy as established by the University is also to be followed.
Alternating of Courses
Students should be advised that not all courses listed in the Calendar are offered in any given year. Some courses are given in alternate years. Careful planning in consultation with the program advisor(s) will help to avoid problems.
Notes on Program Requirements
For students majoring in Music Education, who take several 100-level courses in the subject of the major, the first 6 100-level credit units taken will be counted as junior and the remaining 100-level courses in that subject will be counted as senior.
Students pursuing a degree in Music Education may not take MUS 101 or MUS 105 for credit toward degree requirements.
Students are strongly advised to contact the program advisor(s) when planning their programs, to ensure timely completion of all requirements.
Major Average
The major average in Music Education programs includes the grades earned in:
All EMUS, MUS and MUAP courses
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Music Education, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
All required credit units in EMUS, MUS and MUAP.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Music Honours (Music Education) (B.Mus.(Mus.Ed.)) - Early/Middle Years
Bachelor of Music Honours (Music Education) (B.Mus.(Mus.Ed.)) - Secondary
Bachelor of Music (Music Education) (B.Mus.(Mus.Ed.)) - Early/Middle Years
Bachelor of Music (Music Education) (B.Mus.(Mus.Ed.)) - Secondary