# Physical Therapy

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/physical-therapy/index.php

Graduate Programs
Physical Therapy
Master of Physical Therapy (M.P.T.) - Course-based
Physical Therapy
Master of Physical Therapy (M.P.T.) - Course-based
Admissions
Academic policies
License to Practice
Completing the Master of Physical Therapy program does not grant the right to practice. Graduates must apply for a license to practice through the appropriate provincial regulatory body and pass the national exam administered by the Canadian Alliance of Physiotherapy Regulators.
Residency Requirements
Meeting the admission qualifications does not guarantee admission to the M.P.T. program.
Applicants to the School of Rehabilitation Science must satisfy the following residency requirements:
Applicants applying for a seat designated for an Indigenous student must be Canadian citizens.
Other applicants must be Canadian citizens or landed immigrants AND be
residents of the Province of Saskatchewan or of the Yukon, Northwest or Nunavut Territories
.
An applicant is considered a “resident” if one of the following conditions applies:
The applicant has established their primary place of residence in Saskatchewan or one of the Yukon, Northwest or Nunavut Territories, at least one calendar year immediately prior to September 1 in the year of proposed admission.
Irrespective of the current place of residence of the applicant, the applicant's family home (the home of parents, legal guardians, foster parents or spouse), is in Saskatchewan, or one of the Yukon, Northwest or Nunavut Territories.
The applicant is a graduate of the University of Saskatchewan, the University of Regina or other degree-granting colleges in Saskatchewan.
The applicant is currently serving or is a member of a family unit in which the parents, legal guardians or spouse are serving in the Armed Forces or R.C.M.P., and the family unit has been transferred to Saskatchewan or one of the Yukon, Northwest or Nunavut Territories.
Post-acceptance requirements
Requirements of students admitted to the first year of the Master of Physical Therapy program are as follows:
Must maintain current certification in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) throughout their time in the program. See the
CPR
Certification Requirements
Must comply with the
mandatory immunization requirements
. Students must also be Respirator Fit Mask tested while in the program.
Must complete a specific
police/criminal record check and vulnerable sector check
prior to starting the program before being accepted for clinical placements in clinical facilities.
Additional common requirements as preparation for clinical placements include: additional health, disability and dismemberment insurance, and signed confidentiality agreements.
Seats Designated for Indigenous Applicants
The University and the School of Rehabilitation Science are committed to decolonization, Indigenization, reconciliation and equity, diversity and inclusion, and are proud to support academic opportunities for Indigenous students. We continue to grow our relationships and engaged partnerships among Indigenous community members, thought leaders, Knowledge Keepers and cultural service providers. We recognize, value and affirm our responsibility and commitment to actively engaging Indigenous learners to co-create a culture of inclusivity, respect, and social accountability in all our teaching and learning spaces.
The Master of Physical Therapy (MPT) program has
8 seats designated for Indigenous applicants
. Applicants choosing to apply for these seats must indicate such in the online application and must also meet all usual entry requirements.
Verification of Indigenous Membership/Citizenship at the University of Saskatchewan is led and determined by the deybwewin | taapwatwin | tapwewin: Indigenous Truth Policy and Standing Committee in accordance with the processes developed to enact the policy. Verification of Indigenous Membership/Citizenship with documentation is a condition of acceptance for seats designated for Indigenous applicants.
Please visit
https://indigenous.usask.ca/indigenous-initiatives/deybwewin-taapwaywin-tapwewin.php
to proceed through the verification system as soon as possible after submitting your application. If you have any questions or require additional information about deybwewin | taapwaywin | tapwewin please contact
indigenoustruthpolicy@usask.ca
.
Essential Skills and Abilities Required for the Study of Physical Therapy
Please review the Essential Skills and Attributes - College of Medicine | University of Saskatchewan. Any applicant with concerns regarding the essential skills and abilities required should consult with the Director or designate to discuss the physical and cognitive demands required to successfully complete the program and accommodations that are available to students with disabilities.
Admission Requirements
A four-year baccalaureate degree (in any discipline) from a college or university of acceptable standing
Minimum 75% average normally calculated using the most recent minimum 60 credit units of university course work
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for applicants whose first language is not English. Please note that these requirements are higher than the minimum required by the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Acceptable test scores are as follows:
TOEFL: a minimum of 22 out of 30 in each component with a combined minimum total score of 100
IELTS: a minimum score of 7.5 out of 9 in each area and overall
Cantest: a minimum of 5 in each area and overall
A minimum grade of 70% on each pre-requisite course with a combined pre-requisite average of 75%. Completion of pre-requisite coursework, as follows:
Basic
Human Anatomy (3 credit units)
CPPS 310.3
Basic Human Anatomy (formerly ACB 310.3)
or equivalent
Human Physiology (6 credit units)
CPPS 302.3
Human Physiology Transport Systems (formerly PHPY 302.3) and one of:
NEUR 301.3
Fundamental Neuroscience Intercellular Communication,
CPPS 303.3
Endocrinology & Human Reproduction (formerly PHPY 303.3),
NEUR 350.3
Fundamental Neuroscience;
or
BMSC 207.3
Human Body Systems I and
BMSC 208.3
Human Body Systems II (formerly PHPY 208.6)
or equivalent
Psychology (3 credit units)
PSY – 200-Level, 300-Level, 400-Level
or equivalent
Social sciences or humanities (3 credit units)
ENG – 100-Level, 200-Level, 300-Level, 400-Level
HIST – 100-Level, 200-Level, 300-Level, 400-Level
PHIL - 100-Level, 200-Level, 300-Level, 400-Level
or equivalent
Statistics (3 credit units)
STAT 245.3
Introduction to Statistical Methods
PLSC 214.3
Statistical Methods
or equivalent
Completion of an Indigenous studies course (3 credit units) or non-credit certificate
-
ANTH 202.3
ANTH 480.3
CHEP 819.3
HIST 195.3
HIST 266.3
INDG 107.3
LING 253.3
PLAN 445.3
POLS 222.3
KIN 306.3
INDG — 200-Level, 300-Level, 400-Level
SOC 341.3
Indigenous Canada MOOC
The CASPer test and a Personal Statement
Applicants must seek and receive approval for equivalent courses from the School of Rehabilitation Science prior to January 31 following the application deadline.
Degree Requirements
A total of
141 credit units
are required to complete this program.
PTH 990.0
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0
PTH 811.6
PTH 812.17
PTH 813.22
PTH 814.3
PTH 881.11
PTH 882.10
PTH 883.10
PTH 884.10
PTH 885.22
PTH 901.1
PTH 902.5
PTH 903.6
PTH 904.6
PTH 905.6
PTH 906.6
Residency Requirements
This program is course-based and completed in-person. Residency is expected for the duration of the graduate program.