# Political Studies

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/political-studies/index.php

Arts and Science
Political Studies
Political Studies
Admissions
Academic policies
Political Studies examines the use and abuse of power. Students learn about government and governance, authority and legitimacy, and global and political dynamics. This includes peace and conflict, equity and the distribution of resources, ideological influences, political processes, societal diversities, and struggles for justice, equality, freedom, and the common good.
The Department of Political Studies offers the following certificate programs which are closely related to the Political Studies major.
Global Studies
(Certificate) – This program develops students’ knowledge of globalization and global issues, as well as careers related to governance, business, and social development in the global sphere.
Indigenous Governance and Politics
(Certificate) – This program examines various aspects of Indigenous governance, policies and politics, and improves student skills and knowledge for careers within and beyond the Indigenous communities.
Politics and Law
(Certificate) – This program explores the interface of politics and law, topics of particular interest to students pursuing careers in fields such as law, social work, and justice advocacy.
Some courses in Political Studies are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Major Average
The major average in Political Studies programs includes the grades earned in:
All POLS courses
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Political Studies, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
St. Thomas More College
Some courses in Political Studies are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Political Studies
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Political Studies
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Political Studies
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Political Studies - Major 1
Double Honours - Political Studies - Major 2
Political Studies - Minor