# Professional Communication ‐ Technical and Professional Writing Certificate

College: Engineering
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/engineering/professional-communication-technical-professional-writing/index.php

Engineering
Professional Communication ‐ Technical and Professional Writing
Certificate in Professional Communication - Technical and Professional Writing
Professional Communication ‐ Technical and Professional Writing
Certificate in Professional Communication - Technical and Professional Writing
Academic policies
The Certificate in Professional Communication‐ Technical and Professional Writing (CPC‐TPW) program is a certificate of proficiency program that prepares students for a professional career by cultivating communicative judgment in professional practice. In particular, students will improve professional writing skills for both general and scientific audiences. The program consists of three courses (9 credit units). All courses within the program have a rhetorical foundation and are delivered by the Ron and Jane Graham School of Professional Development, College of Engineering.
Registration in the Certificate in Professional Communication: Technical and Professional Writing is available to undergraduate students who are enrolled in any degree program at the University of Saskatchewan; however, it may also be completed as a stand-alone program. Students are required to complete two of RCM 400.3, RCM 407.3, RCM 408.3, RCM 410.3 and one additional 400-level RCM course. Students may count each course towards
only
one professional communication certificate.
Course Information
All required courses, and most elective courses, in the Certificate in Professional Communication (CPC) program are offered on an annual basis during the fall and winter terms. Select courses may be offered during the spring and summer terms.
In its current form, all courses in the Certificate in Professional Communication (CPC) program are delivered in a traditional lecture format whereby participants are required to attend class in person at the University of Saskatchewan Saskatoon Campus. Courses are not currently offered online or in a modular or blended format.
For further information on current academic offerings, please consult the Dynamic Schedule or contact the School of Professional Development, College of Engineering via telephone (306-966-7830).
Certificate Requirements (9 credit units)
Core Courses (6 credit units)
These 6 credit units must be selected from the following list of course options:
RCM 400.3
RCM 407.3
RCM 408.3
RCM 410.3
Elective courses (3 credit units)
Students can complete any RCM 400-level course for an elective course option, except for the above two courses which have been chosen as the designated required courses for this certificate.