# Psychology

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/psychology/index.php

Arts and Science
Psychology
Psychology
Admissions
Academic policies
Psychology is the study of behaviour and how it affects our lives. With the complexity of our modern world, psychologists fill an increasingly important role in dealing with human problems.
University of Saskatchewan Psychology students choose courses in each of two areas of study. The first group includes courses related to the cultural, social and environmental influences on behaviour. The second group includes courses related to the cognitive, neuropsychological and biological influences on behaviour.
Students who prefer a social science orientation should take one of the B.A. degree programs.
Students who prefer a science orientation should take one of the B.Sc. degree programs.
Students will not be permitted to complete both a B.A. and a B.Sc. in Psychology.
Some courses in Psychology are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Major Average
The major average in B.A. or B.Sc. Psychology programs includes the grades earned in:
All courses listed in the Major Requirement B4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Psychology, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Psychology
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Psychology
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Psychology
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Psychology - Major 1
Double Honours - Psychology - Major 2 (Social Sciences option)
Bachelor of Science Honours (B.Sc. Honours) - Psychology
Bachelor of Science Four-year (B.Sc. Four-year) - Psychology
Bachelor of Science Double Honours - Psychology - Major 1
Double Honours - Psychology - Major 2 (Science option)
Psychology - Minor