# Public Policy Research Certificate

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/public-policy-research-cert/index.php

Graduate Programs
Public Policy Research
Public Policy Research
Graduate Certificate (G.Cert.)
Admissions
Academic policies
This certificate will be of interest to those directly involved in policy analysis and development and to those involved in policy decisions who want to increase their understanding of the overall policy process. It will provide students with a basic foundation in public policy analysis, development, and evaluation. Students will develop analytic skills and gain a solid understanding of the basics of public policy implementation and development.
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for applicants to graduate programs. Proof of English proficiency may be demonstrated through:
A minimum of three consecutive years of full-time study or completion of a graduate degree at a recognized post-secondary institution, where the exclusive language of instruction and examination of the program and/or institution is English; or
Provision of evidence of English language proficiency, using one of the approved tests listed in the English Language Proficiency Policy.
a four-year degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a current resume that includes background and relevant employment history
a letter of intent
three letters of reference
Applications will be reviewed holistically to assess an applicant’s skills, personal attributes,
background, and experiences. The standard admission requirements may be waived if the following
are met:
Recognized completion of at least one year (18 credit units) of higher education;
A break of at least five years from formal higher education; and
At least 10 years of work experience and at least five years of management experience.
Certificate Requirements (9 credit units)
The certificate can be taken as a stand-alone program and the courses can be applied to the completion of the Master of Public Policy (M.P.P.). Courses completed for one graduate certificate may not be used toward another certificate. Please visit grad.usask.ca for details. The certificate program consists of three electives (nine credit units) from the following options:
JSGS 803.3
JSGS 851.3
JSGS 865.3
JSGS 869.3