# Public Administration Certificate

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/public-administration-cert/index.php

Graduate Programs
Public Administration
Public Administration
Graduate Certificate (G.Cert.)
Admissions
Academic policies
This certificate should be of interest to individuals aspiring to work or currently working in the public sector who do not have a background in administration and who want to improve their analytical and management skills. Students will develop the ability to analyze governing institutions and the processes of modern government along with some of the basic skills and techniques required to effectively manage in the public sector.
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for applicants to graduate programs. Proof of English proficiency may be demonstrated through:
A minimum of three consecutive years of full-time study or completion of a graduate degree at a recognized post-secondary institution, where the exclusive language of instruction and examination of the program and/or institution is English; or
Provision of evidence of English language proficiency, using one of the approved tests listed in the English Language Proficiency Policy.
a four-year degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a current resume that includes background and relevant employment history
a letter of intent
three letters of reference
Applications will be reviewed holistically to assess an applicant’s skills, personal attributes, background, and experiences. The standard admission requirements may be waived if the following are met:
Recognized completion of at least one year (18 credit units) of higher education;
A break of at least five years from formal higher education; and
At least 10 years of work experience and at least five years of management experience.
Certificate Requirements (9 credit units)
The certificate can be taken as a stand-alone program and the courses can be applied toward the completion of the Master of Public Administration (M.P.A.). Courses completed for one graduate certificate may not be used toward another certificate. This program is offered in both in-person and online formats. Please visit grad.usask.ca for details.
The certificate program consists of one required three-credit-unit course, JSGS 801 Governance and Administration and two electives (six credit units), as follows:
Required Courses
JSGS 801.3
6 credit units
from the following:
JSGS 802.3
JSGS 805.3
JSGS 806.3
JSGS 807.3
JSGS 808.3
JSGS 838.3
JSGS 882.3