# Regional and Urban Planning

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/regional-and-urban-planning/index.php

Arts and Science
Regional and Urban Planning
Regional and Urban Planning
Admissions
Academic policies
The Regional and Urban Planning program is located in the Department of Geography and Planning, but many others help to deliver the program. For general information on this program and the membership of the program committee, please visit
https://artsandscience.usask.ca/geography/students/undergraduates/regional-and-urban-planning.php
.
The Regional and Urban Planning program is a professional program, accredited by the Professional Standards Board for the Planning Profession in Canada. Planners are place-makers and community builders. Planning is concerned with the disposition of land, resources, facilities and services in urban and regional contexts. It combines technical knowledge with an aesthetic understanding of what constitutes good urban design. Decisions about how communities grow are increasingly linked to public environmental consciousness, making planners one of the most active groups of professionals dealing with climate change, air and water quality and energy efficient community design. Planning is a discipline that links knowledge with action to improve public and private development decisions. Planning decisions affect people, places, the environment and economies. Professional planners are the front-line workers helping citizens, governments and the private sector come together to build communities with sustainable futures. Our graduates work for municipal or provincial governments, or for private sector development or planning consulting firms. Others put their planning skills to work in Indigenous organizations, conservation authorities, school boards, or health regions, to name a few. Some go on to further studies in architecture or research.
Students completing the major requirements will receive a B.A. Four-year or Honours in Regional and Urban Planning. Alternatively, students may select their electives in a way that allows them to meet the program requirements for Regional and Urban Planning as well as the requirements for a major or minor in another subject. In such cases the student may request an official letter from the Undergraduate Student Office indicating that they have also met the requirements for such a major or minor. However, a student may receive only one degree.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Regional and Urban Planning, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Regional and Urban Planning
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Regional and Urban Planning