# Religion and Culture

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/religion-and-culture/index.php

Graduate Programs
Religion and Culture
Master of Arts (M.A.) - Thesis-based
Religion and Culture
Master of Arts (M.A.) - Thesis-based
Academic policies
Please note that no new applications will be accepted at this point.
Students will normally take two years to complete this program.  Program requirements will include a minimum of 15 credit units as specified below, followed by an M.A. thesis based on original research.  The means by which students will meet the Department's second language requirement will also be decided at the time of admission into the program.
The University of Saskatchewan M.A. in Religion and Culture program is open to all students with a B.A.(Hon) or its equivalent in a broad program involving significant critical exposure to religious traditions of the East and the West along with some familiarity with the methodological and thematic issues involved in academic study of religion. Students with a degree in a cognate subject with a limited background in the discipline may be admitted as probationary students with the requirement to do some supplemental work.
For more information on this field of study, please contact the department
.
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a completed online application, the application fee and all supporting application documents. See department website for application and deadline details.
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a four-year honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in RLST 994.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
RLST 990.0
RLST 994.0
complete thesis and successful oral thesis defence
second language requirement
A minimum of 15 credit units of course work including the following:
at least 6 credit units of Religion and Culture chosen in consultation with the advisory committee
at least 9 credit units of electives determined in consultation with the advisory committee