# Religion and Culture

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/religion-culture/index.php

Arts and Science
Religion and Culture
Religion and Culture
Admissions
Academic policies
The Religion and Culture programs explore the range of religions and religious experiences within particular cultural, historical, ideological, and current settings in order to promote awareness of how religions shape human experiences, societies and cultures. Students will be encouraged to understand themselves better as global citizens by exploring the lived experiences of religions and cultures that are relevant to their work and life in the social realm and collective cultural heritage. Students will develop their intellectual and practical skills including writing, critical and creative thinking, inquiry and analysis.
Graduates of Religion and Culture will be equipped for further study in Religion and Culture or Religious Studies at major institutions in Canada, and/or for careers in a wide variety of professions such as law, social work, civil service, NGO service, and counseling.
Courses included in the Religion and Culture program are divided into three categories as described below:
A: Asian Religions in Cross-Cultural Perspectives:
Courses either focus on specific religious traditions such as Hinduism, Buddhism, Confucianism, and Daoism or examine religions and cultures of geographical areas such as South, East, and Southeast Asia. Courses can also be cross-cultural, comparative, and/or thematic investigations of topics such as gender, post-colonialism, globalization, or historical, philosophical, sociological, anthropological, and literary-critical methodologies in the investigation of religions and cultures.
B: Western Religions in Cross-Cultural Perspectives:
Courses can focus on the religious traditions of Christianity, Judaism, and Islam and the encounter between religious thought and modernity in the west. Courses can also be cross-cultural, comparative, and/or thematic investigations of topics such as gender, post-colonialism, globalization, or historical, philosophical, sociological, anthropological, and literary-critical methodologies in the investigation of religions and cultures.
C. Interdisciplinary Perspectives in the Study of Religions and Cultures:
Courses offered from programs other than Religion and Culture by Departments with stated content investigating the academic study of religions and cultures.
Some courses in Religious Studies are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM section in the online Course Offerings.
Select courses at STU (St. Andrew’s College, College of Emmanuel and St. Chad and the Lutheran Theological Seminary) may be taken for transfer credit. Please consult the department for eligible courses at these affiliated institutions.
Major Average
The major average in Religion and Culture programs includes the grades earned in:
All RLST and all courses listed in the Major Requirement A4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Religion and Culture, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement A4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
St. Thomas More College
Most courses in Religious Studies are taught by faculty in the Department of Religion and Culture in St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Saskatoon Theological Union (STU)
Select courses at STU (St. Andrew’s College, College of Emmanuel & St. Chad and the Lutheran Theological Seminary) may be taken for transfer credit. Please consult the department for eligible courses at these affiliated institutions
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Religion and Culture
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Religion and Culture
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Religion and Culture
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Religion and Culture - Major 1
Double Honours - Religion and Culture - Major 2
Religion and Culture - Minor