# Sociology

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/sociology/index.php

Arts and Science
Sociology
Sociology
Admissions
Academic policies
Sociology is the study of human social life, focusing on developing an understanding of changes in social structure and human interaction on an individual, societal and global level. Students in Sociology learn to analyze social issues and think critically about the world around them.
A degree in Sociology prepares students for studies in areas such as criminology, journalism, law, medicine, nursing, planning and social work. Many students go on to do graduate work. Graduates of Sociology, Indigenous Justice and Criminology (IJC) , and/or the Certificate in Criminology and Addictions (CCAP) can apply to work in a variety of fields, including criminal justice, community based and government agencies, social science research, or use these programs as a first degree toward graduate work or other professional schools such as law or medicine.
SOC 111
and
SOC 112
are the prerequisites for all 200, 300, and 400-level courses. Students who have taken
SOC 110
cannot take SOC 111 and SOC 112 for credit.  All 400-level courses are conducted as seminars.
Some courses in Sociology are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM section in the online Course Offerings.
Related programs
Students interested in Social Work and wish to begin their studies at the University of Saskatchewan should consult the College of Arts and Science
First Year Student Handbook
.
Major Average
The major average in Sociology programs includes the grades earned in:
All SOC and all courses listed in the Major Requirement B4.
The major average in Sociology - Indigenous Justice and Criminology (IJC) programs includes the grades earned in:
For Sociology Major: All SOC and all courses listed in the Major Requirement B4.
For IJC recognition: 6 credit units of 100-level ENG; and all courses listed in the Major Requirement B4.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a degree in Sociology, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
To receive a degree in Sociology - Indigenous Justice and Criminology (IJC), students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
6 credit units 100-level ENG in Requirement B1.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement B4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
St. Thomas More College
Some courses in Sociology are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Dual Degree
A dual degree Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. 4-year) in Sociology program option is offered in partnership with Huazhong Agricultural University, China. A dual degree program allows students to pursue studies at two universities, satisfying both institutions' admission and degree requirements. Students receive a degree from both universities. Interested students should contact the Sociology Department general office (
sociology@usask.ca
) for further information.
Programs
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Sociology
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four- year) - Sociology
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three- year) - Sociology
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Sociology - Major 1
Double Honours - Sociology - Major 2
Bachelor of Arts Honours (B.A. Honours) - Sociology - Indigenous Justice and Criminology (IJC)
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Sociology - Indigenous Justice and Criminology (IJC)
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Sociology - Indigenous Justice and Criminology (IJC)
Sociology - Minor