# Spanish

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/spanish/index.php

Arts and Science
Spanish
Spanish
Academic policies
The Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultural Studies offers instruction in Spanish language and literature, both in the original and in translation, and courses in the civilization and culture of Spanish-speaking countries.
The study of second languages is fundamental to an education in the liberal arts. With globalization progressing at a rapid speed, dealing with people from a variety of cultural and linguistic backgrounds is becoming increasingly important. By studying other languages and cultures, we do not only learn about them, but also get a deeper understanding of ourselves. Knowledge of specific second languages is important in many undergraduate and graduate programs and an advantage or necessity in many careers. The ability to read and communicate in a second language also opens doors, otherwise closed, to gratifying personal and cultural experiences. The study of a language can help in acquiring skills transferable to other subjects.
Spanish is spoken in many countries and is the most widely spoken of the Romance languages. It is the third most widely spoken language in the world, following Mandarin Chinese and English. Spanish is spoken as a mother tongue by 50 million people in the United States and by almost one million Spanish speaking people in Canada. Overall, there are 500 million people in the world whose native tongue is Spanish and many people of all ages are learning it as their second or third language.
Students studying in Spanish are strongly encouraged to complement their programs with a Spanish Term Abroad. The Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultural Studies offers its Spanish students the opportunity to spend the Winter Semester in Guadalajara, Mexico, as part of our CECM Guadalajara Spanish Term Abroad. This Term Abroad will allow you to take Spanish language and literature courses, Mexican Cinema and Civilization courses, while living with a Mexican family. This is a great opportunity to fine tune your Spanish skills by immersing yourself in the wonderful city of Guadalajara and experience Mexico's fascinating culture.
Several book prizes and scholarships are available to students studying Spanish as described in the Awards Guide, available online.
Frequency of Course Offerings
Not all courses listed in the Course and Program Catalogue are offered every year. Careful planning in consultation with the Department will eliminate problems.
Courses in language
: SPAN 114.3, SPAN 117.3, SPAN 214.3, SPAN 217.3, SPAN 314.3, SPAN 317.3
Courses in literature taught in Spanish
: SPAN 305.3, SPAN 307.3, SPAN 308.3, SPAN 403.3, SPAN 406.3, SPAN 408.3
Courses in culture taught in Spanish
: SPAN 202.3, SPAN 204.3
St. Thomas More College
Some courses in Spanish are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These courses or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
Programs
Spanish - Minor
Spanish - Recognition