# Speech-Language Pathology

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/speech-language-pathology/index.php

Graduate Programs
Speech-Language Pathology
Master of Speech-Language Pathology (M.S.L.P.)
Speech-Language Pathology
Master of Speech-Language Pathology (M.S.L.P.)
Admissions
Academic policies
License to Practice
Completing the Master of Speech Language Pathology program does not grant the right to practice. Graduates must apply for a license to practice through the appropriate provincial regulatory body. In most provinces, including the province of Saskatchewan, the graduates must also pass the Canadian Entry to Practice Exam (CEPE), and may be required to complete supervised clinical hours or a mentorship program during the initial stages of their practice.  It is the graduates’ responsibility to consult the regulatory body of the province where they intend to practice for up-to-date requirements specific to the province.
Residency Requirements
Meeting the admission qualifications does not guarantee admission to the M.O.T. program.
Applicants to the School of Rehabilitation Science must satisfy the following residency requirements:
Applicants applying for a seat designated for an Indigenous student must be Canadian citizens.
Other applicants must be Canadian citizens or landed immigrants AND be
residents of the Province of Saskatchewan or of the Yukon, Northwest or Nunavut Territories
. The Saskatchewan residency requirement may be waived at the discretion of the School of Rehabilitation Science Admissions Committee.
An applicant is considered a “resident” if one of the following conditions applies:
The applicant has established their primary place of residence in Saskatchewan or one of the Yukon, Northwest or Nunavut Territories, at least one calendar year immediately prior to September 1 in the year of proposed admission.
Irrespective of the current place of residence of the applicant, the applicant's family home (the home of parents, legal guardians, foster parents or spouse), is in Saskatchewan, or one of the Yukon, Northwest or Nunavut Territories.
The applicant is a graduate of the University of Saskatchewan, the University of Regina or other degree-granting colleges in Saskatchewan.
The applicant is currently serving or is a member of a family unit in which the parents, legal guardians or spouse are serving in the Armed Forces or R.C.M.P., and the family unit has been transferred to Saskatchewan or one of the Yukon, Northwest or Nunavut Territories.
Seats Designated for Indigenous Applicants
The University and the School of Rehabilitation Science are committed to decolonization, Indigenization, reconciliation and equity, diversity and inclusion, and are proud to support academic opportunities for Indigenous students. We continue to grow our relationships and engaged partnerships among Indigenous community members, thought leaders, Knowledge Keepers and cultural service providers. We recognize, value and affirm our responsibility and commitment to actively engaging Indigenous learners to co-create a culture of inclusivity, respect, and social accountability in all our teaching and learning spaces.
The Master of Speech-Language Pathology (MSLP) program
has up to 8 seats designated for Indigenous applicants
. Applicants choosing to apply for these seats must indicate such in the online application and must also meet all usual entry requirements.
Verification of Indigenous Membership/Citizenship at the University of Saskatchewan is led and determined by the
deybwewin | taapwatwin | tapwewin: Indigenous Truth Policy
and Standing Committee in accordance with the processes developed to enact the policy.
Verification of Indigenous Membership/Citizenship with documentation
is a condition of acceptance for seats that are designated for Indigenous applicants.
Please visit
https://indigenous.usask.ca/indigenous-initiatives/deybwewin-taapwaywin-tapwewin.php
to proceed through the verification system as soon as possible after submitting your application. If you have any questions or require additional information about deybwewin | taapwaywin | tapwewin please contact
indigenoustruthpolicy@usask.ca
.
Admission Requirements
Academic Requirements
Successful completion of a four-year Undergraduate degree (120 credits) or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in any academic field of study.
A cumulative weighted average of at least 70% or higher in their most recent 60 graded credit units.
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for applicants whose first language is not English. Please note that these requirements are higher than the minimum required by the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies. Acceptable test scores are as follows:
TOEFL: a minimum of 22 out of 30 in reading, 24 out of 30 in writing and 26 out of 30 in both speaking and listening.
IELTS: a minimum score of 8 out of 9 in listening, and 7.5 out of 9 in speaking, reading, and writing.
Successful completion of the required pre-requisite courses with an academic grade of 70% or higher in each pre-requisite course (or approved alternate courses from an accredited post-secondary institution)
and
an overall average of 75% among all pre-requisite courses:
Basic Human Anatomy or Neuroanatomy – 3 credit units (e.g.:
CPPS 310.3,
CPPS 221.3
,
PSY 242.3
,
PSY 246.3
, or equivalent)
Indigenous Studies – 3 credit (e.g.: courses included in the College of Arts and Science
Indigenous Learning Requirement
,
KIN 306.3
,
EFDT 265.3
,
ECUR 265.3
, OR equivalent)
Introductory Linguistics – 3 credit units (
LING 111.3
or equivalent)
Introductory Phonetics – 3 credit units (
LING 242.3
or equivalent)
Psychology – 3 credit units (any course at any level from an accredited post‐secondary institution in Psychology)
Statistics – 3 credit units (
STAT 245.3
,
STAT 246.3
,
PLSC 214.3
or equivalent)
Additional courses that are highly recommended, but not required:  any course at any level in sociology, social science, neuroscience, research design, physiology, neuroanatomy, women and gender studies.
Applicants must seek and receive approval for equivalent courses from the School of Rehabilitation Science prior to January 31 following the application deadline.
Non-Academic Requirements
Completion of the situational judgement test, Computer-Based Assessment for Sampling Personal Characteristics (CASPer® Online)
Completion of  a  written  submission  – a  maximum  of  300  words  (based on a question  prompt  unique  to  each  year  provided  to  each  applicant  by  the  SRS Admissions Committee).
Post-acceptance requirements
Requirements of students admitted to the first year of the Master of Speech-Language Pathology program are as follows:
Must maintain current certification in Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) throughout their time in the program. See the CPR Certification Requirements.
Must comply with the mandatory immunization requirements. Students must also be Respirator Fit Mask tested while in the program.
Must complete a specific police/criminal record check and vulnerable sector check prior to starting the program before being accepted for clinical placements in clinical facilities.
Additional common requirements as preparation for clinical placements include: additional health, disability and dismemberment insurance, and signed confidentiality agreements.
For more information on post-acceptance requirements, please see the
School of Rehabilitation Sciences
.
Degree Requirements
A minimum total of
137 credit units
are required to complete this program. Students must maintain continuous registration in the 990 course.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0
SLP 990.0
Year 1 - Module 1
SLP 811.11
SLP 801.12
SLP 901.1
Year 1 - Module 2
SLP 812.9
SLP 802.12
Year 1 - Module 3
SLP 902.5
Year 1 – Module 4
SLP 813.8
SLP 814.4
Year 1 – Module 5
SLP 815.3
Year 2 – Module 6
SLP 816.8
SLP 803.17
Year 2 – Module 7
SLP 903.6
SLP 904.6
Year 2 – Module 8
SLP 817.8
SLP 804.15
Year 3 – Module 9
SLP 905.6
SLP 906.6
Residency Requirements
This program is course-based and completed in-person. Residency is expected for the duration of the graduate program.