# Studio Art

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/studio-art/index.php

Arts and Science
Studio Art
Studio Art
Admissions
Academic policies
The Studio Art program provides students with an intensive studio experience which explores technical, aesthetic, and theoretical concerns in a critical setting pertinent to the pursuit of art in our culture. Courses are offered in Drawing, Sculpture, Painting, Photography, Printmaking, and Digital and Integrated Practices. All studio majors are required to take 6 credit units in foundation-level drawing, 3 credit units in foundation sculpture, as well as foundation-level courses in one or two other studio areas, depending on the degree chosen. The program aims to educate students in both the practical and theoretical aspects of the visual language and to provide a thorough background for those who will pursue research and careers in the visual arts or arts-related fields. Studies are enriched by visiting artists and critics and the presence of graduate students from Canada and abroad. In addition to the regular program, several courses are offered each summer during Spring and Summer Session. In addition to scheduled classes, students are expected to attend most auxiliary activities, such as guest lectures and local exhibitions. All students must allow time in their schedules for working a minimum of six hours per week for each studio class in which they are enrolled. Please note that more than two absences from scheduled classes and labs will adversely affect the student's evaluation.
Art History and Studio Art are considered separate subject areas. Consequently, students may take a maximum of 60 credit units for the B.A. Four-year program in each of these subject areas and 42 credit units for the B.A. Three-year program.
Program majors are strongly encouraged to declare a major as early as possible in their program.  This will help facilitate course registration. Students are encouraged to consult with the School for the Arts regarding course selection, as many courses are not offered every year.
Note: Laboratory fees are required by the school in most studio classes. Details will be given in the online Course Offerings and/or in course outlines.
Note: For students not majoring or minoring in Studio Art, the second 6 100-level ART credit units taken will count as senior credit units. The first 6 100-level ART credit units and additional (above 12 credit units) 100-level ART units will be counted as junior credit units.
For students majoring or minoring in Studio Art, who take several 100-level courses in the subject of their major, the first 6 100-level credit units taken will be counted as junior and the remaining 100-level courses in that subject will be counted as senior.
Major Average
The major average in B.A. and B.F.A. Studio Art programs includes the grades earned in:
All ART and ARTH courses
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive a B.A. degree in Studio Art, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Major Requirement D4.
To receive a B.F.A. degree in Studio Art, students must complete at least two-thirds of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum requirements in Studio Art Requirement E3 and Art History Requirement E4.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Programs
Bachelor of Fine Arts Honours (B.F.A. Honours) in Studio Art
Bachelor of Arts Four-year (B.A. Four-year) - Studio Art
Bachelor of Arts Three-year (B.A. Three-year) - Studio Art
Bachelor of Arts - Double Honours - Studio Art - Major 1
Double Honours - Studio Art - Major 2
Bachelor of Arts Double Honours - Studio Art and Art History- Majors 1 and 2
Studio Art - Minor