# Sustainability

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/sustainability/index.php

Graduate Programs
Master of Sustainability
Master of Sustainability (M.Ss.) - Project-based and Course-based
Master of Sustainability
Master of Sustainability (M.Ss.) - Project-based and Course-based
Admissions
Academic policies
Admission Requirements
a four-year degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study, OR a three-year first cycle undergraduate degree, in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study, from an institution that meets the criteria set forth in the
Bologna Declaration
, will be acceptable as the equivalent of an undergraduate degree.
a minimum cumulative weighted average of
at least
a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (e.g., 60 credit units)
Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English. A minimum overall TOEFL score of 86, a minimum overall IELTS score of 6.5, or another approved test as outlined by the
College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
. [
Note
: These are minimum language proficiency requirements; however, stronger scores are generally expected for successful entry into the program.]
A completed online application, the application fee, and all supporting application documents including:
Statement of Intent
: Applicants must provide a written Statement of Intent (1000-word maximum) describing why they want to join the program and how their expertise, work and/or volunteer experience make them an ideal candidate for the program.
This statement is a key component in adjudicating each applicant’s suitability for the program.
Letters of reference
: Applicants will need to provide three letters of reference—either academic or professional letters.  In their letters of reference, all referees should speak to the applicant’s ability for success in a graduate program.
Up-to-date Curriculum Vitae: Applicants must include all post-secondary education, work
experiences, and any publications, presentations, and awards.
Probationary Admission
: Applicants whose qualifications do not meet the minimum requirements
listed above
or whose academic qualifications are difficult to assess may be admitted on a probationary status to
the
program. Applicants in this category may, in some situations,
be required to take one or more preparatory courses to improve their qualifications. In this case, they will be required to pay additional fees. The student’s
probationary
status will be reviewed after a specified amount of academic work is completed. If progress is satisfactory, the Program Director or Graduate Chair
will
recommend to CGPS that the student be considered fully qualified. Students who do not achieve the probationary conditions may withdraw voluntarily or, failing this, will be required to discontinue. In certain exceptional situations, the academic unit may extend the probationary period with a new set of conditions, agreed to by the student and by
CGPS.
Degree Requirements
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
All M.Ss. students must complete a total of
30 credit units.
Regenerative Sustainability
Students in the Regenerative Sustainability field of study may choose to pursue either a project or course-based program of study. Students must take the following:
1)
Required Courses (12 credit units)
ENVS 807.3
ENVS 839.3
ENVS 852.3
ENVS 853.3
ENVS 990.0
2) Electives (minimum 12 credit units)
: students must choose a minimum of 12 cu of course work from the available graduate courses offered in any given year—with the possibility of special permission to take courses outside of SENS. All electives must be pre-approved by the Program Director.
3) Project or Additional Electives (6 credit units)
ENVS 992.6
OR
Additional Electives (6 credit units)
Energy Security
The Energy Security field of study is offered as a course-based program of study. Students must take the following:
Required Energy Security Courses (30 credit units)
ENVS 839.3
ENVS 840.3
ENVS 841.3
ENVS 842.3
ENVS 843.3
ENVS 844.3
ENVS 845.3
ENVS 846.3
ENVS 847.3
ENVS 848.3
ENVS 990.0