# The University Catalogue is the University of Saskatchewan’s official source of course and program information. This Catalogue is effective May 1, 2026 to April 30, 2027.

College: Unknown
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/index.php

Course and Program Catalogue
2026-2027
Colleges and schools
Our university is composed of 17 colleges and schools, as well as a number of federated and affiliated colleges.
Colleges and schools
Programs
We offer over 80 distinct programs in over 130 fields of study. Below you can view the specific requirements to graduate from each approved program.
Program requirements
Courses
From Anatomy to Writing, this is the list of approved courses offered by the University of Saskatchewan.
Courses
Academic calendar
Full list of academic dates and deadlines such as when classes start, when the university is closed, and deadlines to pay tuition.
Academic calendar
Tuition and fees
Official list of tuition and fee information for approved programs offered by the university.
Tuition and fees
Admissions
Interested in applying to the University of Saskatchewan? Requirements, deadlines, and process will differ based on the program you are interested in.
Admissions
Formerly known as the University Calendar, the University Catalogue is an online document that includes the Course and Program Catalogue, Academic Calendar, tuition and fee information, registration and admission requirements, and other information and services. It is the University of Saskatchewan’s official source of curricular information, academic dates, tuition and fees, and registration and admission requirements. The University Catalogue contains some of the policies and regulations all students of the University of Saskatchewan are required to observe. Not all University of Saskatchewan policies and regulations are contained within this University Catalogue. For the most current and complete information about matters outlined in the University Catalogue, contact the relevant academic or administrative unit.
The contents of the University Catalogue are subject to continuing review and revision. The courses listed in the Course and Program Catalogue are not necessarily offered each year. The University of Saskatchewan reserves the right to remove, change or amend, at any time and without notice, the information contained in the University Catalogue, including its programs, course offerings, fee structure, policies and regulations.
The University of Saskatchewan is not liable to any person who may suffer any loss or damage of any type arising from the use of or reliance upon any information contained in the University Catalogue, any action of the University of Saskatchewan in regard to the University Catalogue, including but not limited to any amendment, addition or withdrawal to or from the information provided, or any inability to access any information contained in the University Catalogue for any reason whatsoever including technical or administrative difficulties.
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
What could make this page better?
Thank you for helping us make the university website better. Your comment will be forwarded to the editor of this page. Please note that this form is not intended to provide customer service. If you need assistance, please
contact us
directly.
Send feedback
Dismiss