# Ukrainian

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/ukrainian/index.php

Arts and Science
Ukrainian
Recognition
Ukrainian
Recognition
Academic policies
Ukrainian language courses are currently offered by St. Thomas More College. Please consult the course offerings on PAWS for the list of courses offered each year.
The study of second languages is fundamental to an education in the liberal arts, to citizenship in a multicultural nation, and to understanding an increasingly close-knit world. It is an important element in the study of linguistics. Knowledge of a second language is important in many undergraduate and graduate programs and is an advantage or necessity in a wide range of careers. The ability to read and communicate in a second language also opens doors, otherwise closed, to gratifying personal and cultural experiences.
Courses and Programs Abroad: Students are strongly encouraged to complement their programs with study and travel abroad. By obtaining prior permission of the University they may be able to apply credits earned abroad towards a University of Saskatchewan degree.
Ukrainian language courses can be used towards satisfying the Language Requirement and towards the following programs:
Linguistics
Modern Languages
Ukrainian Studies - Minor
Some courses in Ukrainian are taught by faculty in the corresponding department of St. Thomas More College. These classes or sections are designated as STM sections in the online Course Offerings.
The Recognition average in Ukrainian will be calculated using the grades earned in all courses eligible to be included in the Recognition program requirements. Students must complete at least two-thirds of the program requirements (rounded to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) using courses offered by the University of Saskatchewan to meet the
Residency
requirement.
The Recognition in Ukrainian may be completed in conjunction with any degree in another discipline in the College of Arts and Science.
Requirements (18 credit units)
An average of at least 62.5% is required in the courses taken for Recognition.
18 credit units of courses given in Ukrainian
Students with advanced standing who do not take the elementary language courses (UKR 114.3,
UKR 117.3) may receive Recognition after completion of 12 credit units of courses given in the target language.
Students with a background in Ukrainian (including those who speak the language at home) are not permitted to take certain Ukrainian language courses. Full details on restrictions are noted with the Ukrainian course descriptions in the Course Descriptions section of the Course and Program Catalogue.
Students registered in any of the following language courses should plan to attend weekly oral tutorials as scheduled in the Registration Guide. A multi-media laboratory is also available on a library basis.
UKR 114.3
UKR 117.3
UKR 214.3
UKR 217.3
UKR 314.3
UKR 317.3