# Writing

College: Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Level: Graduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/grad-studies/writing/index.php

Graduate Programs
Writing
Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.)
Writing
Master of Fine Arts (M.F.A.)
Admissions
Academic policies
Entry into the M.F.A. in Writing requires a four-year Bachelor's degree and a strong portfolio of writing. In exceptional cases, applicants without the degree may enter the program on a probationary basis: equivalency will be judged on previous participation in reputable workshops such as those offered by the Banff School of Fine Arts, the Sage Hill Writing Experience, and the Saskatchewan Writers' Guild; on relevant work experience; and on substantial publication.
For more information, see the
Department of English
website.
Admission Requirements
Language Proficiency Requirements: Proof of English proficiency may be required for international applicants and for applicants whose first language is not English.
a completed online application, the application fee, and all supporting application documents
a cumulative weighted average of at least a 70% (U of S grade system equivalent) in the last two years of study (i.e. 60 credit units)
a four-year honours degree, or equivalent, from a recognized college or university in an academic discipline relevant to the proposed field of study
For more information on language proficiency requirements, see the College of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies
Academic Policies
.
Application requirements, instructions and deadlines can be found on the
department website
.
Degree Requirements
Students must maintain continuous registration in
WRIT 994.0
.
GPS 960.0
GPS 961.0, if research involves human subjects
GPS 962.0, if research involves animal subjects
One elective 800-level (or, where approved, a senior level undergraduate) course (3 credit units)
WRIT 990.0
WRIT 994.0
complete thesis and successful oral thesis defence
Students must complete 4 workshop courses (12 credit units):
WRIT 800.3
WRIT 801.3
WRIT 802.3
WRIT 803.3