# wîcêhtowin Theatre Certificate

College: Arts and Science
Level: Undergraduate
Source: https://programs.usask.ca/arts-and-science/wicehtowin-theatre/index.php

Arts and Science
wîcêhtowin Theatre
wîcêhtowin Theatre
Certificate (Cert.)
Admissions
Academic policies
No new students will be accepted into this program in 2026-27. Students who have already have this program on their student record will be allowed to complete. Please consult with the School for the Arts - Drama and/or the Undergraduate Student Office for more information.
The Certificate in wîcêhtowin Theatre program is a transformative certificate program in theatre performance that engages and empowers Indigenous students at the University of Saskatchewan. “wîcêhtowin” is a Cree word, a noun and process: we live together in harmony; we help each other; we are inclusive.
wîcêhtowin Theatre program is a comprehensive and experiential-based learning approach to develop emerging First Nations and Métis theatre professionals and students who are interested in an Indigenous perspective. The program delivers meaningful and principled theatre skills that will provide graduates with the requisite training for success in a creative milieu. For students in other degree programs, this certificate will significantly enhance their degree. For certificate program graduates interested in continuing their education at the University of Saskatchewan, courses taken as part of the program can be used to ladder into degree programs.
Major Average
The major average in the Certificate in wîcêhtowin Theatre includes the grades earned in:
All DRAM courses.
Residency Requirements in the Major
To receive this certificate, students must complete at least half of the following coursework (to the nearest highest multiple of 3 credit units) from the University of Saskatchewan.
Minimum credit units required in the program.
See
Residency
for additional details.
Requirements (21 credit units)
DRAM 110.3
DRAM 111.3 (formerly DRAM 211.3)
DRAM 118.3
DRAM 119.3 or DRAM 113.3
DRAM 231.3
Choose
6 credit units
from the following:
DRAM 113.3
DRAM 119.3
DRAM 210.3
DRAM 213.3
DRAM 218.3
DRAM 219.3
Students in this program are required to attend at least two relevant workshops or performances to be eligible to receive the certificate. Students must consult with the Program Coordinator prior to attendance to determine whether a given event meets this requirement.